HUNDREDS of mourners will pay their respects today at the funeral of murdered student Karen Buckley.
Crowds in Mallow, County Cork lined up to say goodbye last night before her coffin was taken to a church where the service will be held.
The 24-year-old, from Mourneabbey, will be laid to rest just over two weeks after she went missing on a night out with friends in Glasgow, where she had been studying nursing.
Her remains were found on a farm north of the city on April 16.
Karen’s body was released to her parents on Friday and flown back to Ireland on Sunday on a private flight.
 

A hearse last night took her from a funeral home to the church at Analeentha, where the service will be held at 2pm.
Karen’s former classmates at St Mary’s Secondary School in Mallow and her fellow students from University of Limerick formed a guard of honour around the hearse as Karen’s remains were removed to her local church.
Ms Buckley’s remains were due to lie in repose from 4pm until 8pm, before removal to Church of St Michael the Archangel in Analeentha, Mourneabbey ahead of her funeral on Tuesday at 2pm.
Flowers, a candle and cards sat next to a picture of a smiling Miss Buckley in a vibrant yellow dress at the Hibernian Hotel in Mallow, while at O’Connell’s funeral home, mourners filed past poignant photos of Karen celebrating her first communion and on her graduation from University of Limerick.
Devastated friends and relatives queued throughout the afternoon to sympathise with her parents John and Marian Buckley and older brothers Brendan, Kieran and Damian.
Classmates from Glasgow Caledonian University are due to attend today’s funeral in the church of Buckley family’s native Analeentha, next to the national school Karen attended as a child, where flags were flying at half mast yesterday.
Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Karen Stanton, is also due to attend the funeral service on Tuesday.
Karen is due to be laid to rest beside her grandparents Patrick and Hannah, at St John’s Cemetary in Mourneabbey parish, following her funeral mass.
A special marquee has been erected outside the country church to facilitate large crowds expected to attend.
Gardai have also put in place a special traffic flow plan to cope with the influx of mourners, along with a park and ride operating from Mallow.
Alexander Pacteau, 21, previously made no plea when he appeared in court charged with her murder.

