GLASGOW WARRIORS have completed a double signing swoop in a bid to strengthen their squad for next season.
The arrivals of Australian centre Sam Johnson from the Queensland Reds and USA international lock Greg Peterson from Leicester Tigers are on two-year deals and subject to medicals.
But 21-year-old Johnson admits he’s already looking forward to getting to know Glasgow and improving his game under a new coaching regime.
He said: &quot;I'm excited about working with the coaches at Glasgow and I've heard a lot of good things about the club and the city.
&quot;I've spoken to a few boys at the Reds about Matt Taylor, who used to be the defence coach here and they've told me how good a coach he is, so it'll be good to work with him.
&quot;Glasgow play free flowing rugby and I really like the way they attack, which is a bit different to typical European teams and defensively their structure is second to none.
&quot;I've been watching the European Rugby Champions Cup this season and I'm looking forward to having the opportunity to test myself at that level against some of the best teams in the world.
&quot;Hopefully I can make a contribution at the Warriors and learn as much as I can over the next couple of years.”
That enthusiasm is shared by 24-year-old Peterson who has been capped three times for USA and joined Leicester Tigers in December from Super Rugby side, NSW Waratahs.
It’s a new challenge for Australian-born lock, who was with the Waratahs for five years after joining their Academy in 2009 and he can’t wait to get started for Gregor Townsend’s side.
He said: &quot;I worked alongside some very good second rowers at the Waratahs such as Dean Mumm and Kane Douglas, who have excelled when they've moved to the northern hemisphere.
&quot;Gregor has given me the opportunity to join Glasgow and I believe I can help the team progress further.
&quot;I've learnt a lot at Leicester Tigers about northern hemisphere rugby and I've loved my time there. I've always given one hundred percent and I'll do the same for Glasgow.
&quot;I like the style of rugby Glasgow play and everybody works hard for each other, which is how I think the game should be played. The harder you work the more opportunities you get.
&quot;Talking to Gregor about the values of the team and the way the team plays almost feels like a perfect fit, so when I get up there I'll grab the opportunity with both hands and show the supporters the kind of player I am.”
Warriors head coach Townsend believes the pair will bring a host of skills to the Scotstoun side for the next campaign and beyond
He said: “Both Sam and Greg will be great additions to our squad next season and we're looking forward to them joining us.
&quot;Sam has played very well since his return from rugby league, producing some eye-catching games in the NRC and at club level. He has been a regular for the Reds back-up side this season and his impressive performances have seen him break into the first team.
&quot;He is a strong running ball carrier that can cover both centre positions and we believe that he will continue to improve within our environment.
&quot;Greg has picked up some great experience already in his rugby career and played well for the USA in the November Tests. He is determined to make the most of his opportunity with us.
&quot;He has a real physical presence and hits hard in the tackle. He will give us something different and add to the competition for places in the second-row.”
