A RELIEVED mum found out by text that her son had survived an avalanche on Everest triggered by the devastating earthquake in Nepal.
Matthew Thorne, 36, was at basecamp on the world's highest mountain when it was rocked by 7.8 magnitude tremor. 
And as the death toll across the country soared to more than 2,000 Matthew's parents and brother Mark endured an agonising wait for news. 
But at 12.45pm yesterday his mum Marcelline received the best text of her life. 
It read: “Hi this is Khristian. Matthew is fine and in Namche Bazaar. We are heading south to lukla airport tomorrow in hopes of flying out of Kathmandu as soon as possible. He sends his love.” 
Fighting back tears of joy, Marcelline, 62, told The Record: “I am overwhelmed and overjoyed. 
“It's a big relief. 
“It will take more than an earthquake to stop my boy.” 
Several Scots have been caught up in terrifying aftermath of the country's deadliest earthquake for more than 80 years. 
On Saturday it struck an area of central Nepal between the capital, Kathmandu, and the city of Pokhara. 
There have been a number of aftershocks since, including a 6.7 magnitude tremor on Sunday. 
And more avalanches were reported near Mount Everest leaving many climbers and guides cut off from the devastated base camp. 
Matthew's family had not heard from the property consultant since April 12. 
And, ominously, his last blog post from Kathmandu on April 8 ended: “I am ready to go, got me medication for altitude and all my mountain gear, I hope to reach 5650m with views of Everest in about 7 days. 
“What next...” 
One of Matthew's ambitions was to climb Everest and he was keen to fulfil it before he returned home to Scotland after more than a decade living abroad.
 

He flew to Lukla on April 12 and expected to take a fortnight to reach basecamp but when the news broke on Saturday his family feared his dream could turn into a nightmare. 
Retired civil servant Marcelline said: “It has been a total rollercoaster. 
“You go up from thinking 'He is fine, he is ok'. 
“But then, as a husband and a wife, as a mother and a father, you fear the reality could be that he is not fine. 
“You are very realistic about the fact that you could get bad news.” 
The mum-of-two was buoyed by the “wonderful support” of family and Matthew's friends in England, France and New Zealand. 
The New Zealand commissioner in Nepal was also trying to obtain updates as Mark holds joint Kiwi and UK citizenship. 
But the magic moment finally came at lunchtime yesterday. 
Marcelline, of Stirling, said: “My husband and I were standing at our door about to lock up.“I had a cheescake in one hand and he had wine and flowers in the other hand. 
“We were going out to visit friends and I thought 'This looks a bit odd' as it was an unrecognised number. 
“I thought it could be about Matthew.
“I looked into it and it was a message from, I think, one of his guides. 
“I couldn't believe it.
&quot;All I saw and zoomed in mentally to was 'Matthew is safe'. 
“I could not believe it. 
“It is the best news ever. 
“I hope this gives a bit of heart to others who are waiting on news.”
SCOTLAND'S aid agency has launched an emergency appeal to help survivors of the Nepalese earthquake. 
The Scottish Catholic International Aid Fund's partners are already helping those affected by the tragedy. 
SCIAF Director Alistair Dutton said: &quot;Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Nepal. 
&quot;Our partners are already helping to rescue survivors and have provided tarpaulins for people to sleep under. 
&quot;They are also giving out food, clean water, blankets and soap. 
&quot;We will do whatever we can to help them.&quot;
SCIAF is working closely with its sister charities in the global Caritas family of Catholic international aid agencies who are responding to the disaster. 
Caritas Nepal Director Fr Pius Perumana S.J. is in Kathmandu and said: &quot;It was the worst earthquake I have ever experienced in my life. 
&quot;Thank God it was during the day and on a holiday as many people were outside when the quake happened. 
&quot;Rescue is the first priority. 
&quot;Lots of people have lost their homes and are out on the street or in open spaces, so we will be looking to provide them with food and temporary shelter.&quot;
To donate to SCIAF’s Nepal Earthquake Emergency appeal online visit www.sciaf.org.uk or call 0141 354 5555. 

