HEALTH chiefs want the legal drinking age to be raised to 21 in Scotland in a bid to slash binge drinking and save money.
The move, recommended by NHS advisers, would apply to pubs , clubs, supermarkets and off-licences – bringing Scotland into line with countries such as the United States.
Experts at NHS Health &shy;Scotland, the Government’s health promotions agency, say raising the legal drinking age from 18 is the most &shy;cost-effective way to improve the nation’s health.
Their report, Best &shy;Preventative Investments for Scotland, says the curbs could reduce future demand on the health service north of the Border, where “rates of alcohol-related mortality are substantially higher”.
The &shy;Scottish Government have no plans to raise the drinking age and a &shy;controversial SNP bid to ban booze sales to under 21s in problem areas was blocked in 2010 – but experts say a change in legislation would save lives.
Principal adviser Neil Craig said: “In Scotland, hazardous alcohol consumption in young people is a continuing problem. For males and females, the largest increase in &shy;hospitalisation rates for alcohol-related&shy; &shy;conditions since the early 1980s has been in 15-24-year-olds. This was particularly marked for females.”
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and Health Secretary Shona Robison have previously backed proposals to raise the alcohol age in certain parts of the country to curb teen drinking.
The Scottish Government said a range of &shy;measures were being enforced. A spokesman said: “We are committed to tackling alcohol misuse and have outlined a package of more than 40 &shy;measures to do this.

“These focus on education, diversionary activity, support for families and communities and preventative public health &shy;measures.
“Together with minimum unit pricing and regulatory measures on issues such as the &shy;irresponsible promotion of alcohol, we believe this package will help create the cultural shift required to change our relationship with alcohol.
“While we have no plans to change the legal age for drinking alcohol, we remain open to the consideration of any evidence-based proposals.”
CRAIG LARKIN, 21, LOCH LOMOND
I lived in Germany where the drinking age is 16 and it’s like night and day.
 

They get brought into the idea of drinking at a younger age and there’s no trouble, it’s more of a social thing, so I think raising the age is a bad idea.
Imagine you were 19 and you’ve been able to drink for a few years but then you get told you can’t drink for a year?
That isn’t right.
It’s about the country’s relationship with drink and that’s got to start at a young age.
Scotland has a problem with alcohol but I don’t think that’s the proper way to address it.
JASMINE MACKAY, 20, PERTH
I don’t think it will make a difference. If anything it will make it more dangerous because, instead of doing it in clubs, people will drink in houses where there’s nobody to keep an eye on them.
 

I don’t think it would be hard to get a hold of drink at all. It’s not hard for minors to get alcohol at the moment so I don’t see how it would make any difference.
It probably won’t affect me very much but it’s hardly fair for people younger than me.
TASHA BOARDMAN, 21, EDINBURGH
It would definitely impact the student experience a lot, it’s a big, big part of the social life of students.
 

It would be really strange to go to a club full of sober students where only people over 21 could drink.
The dynamics would change completely of how you meet people.
A lot of freshers week is based around drinking and pub crawls and stuff like that so I think that it would put people off coming to Scottish universities, 100 per cent.
I’m a sabbatical officer for the student union at Edinburgh University and we would really struggle to attract people if they changed the law.
DANIEL HARDIE, 19, JOHNSTONE
As far as I’m concerned it’s not going to get passed, it’s not going to happen. Bars and nightclubs get most of their business from boys and girls going out as soon as they turn 18.
 

The nightclubs that I go to are full of 18 and 19 &shy;year&shy; old’s.
If you take that age group out of the clubs then they’ll loss most of their business.
I think it will affect to many people and too many businesses for it to happen.
Plus I don’t think I’m the only one whose parents would probably still buy me drink even if there was a change in the law.
CALLUM ROBERTSON, 18, DUNFERMLINE
I don’t drink a lot but I don’t think it would stop me and my friends drinking at all.
 

If you watch the movies it doesn’t seem to stop anybody drinking in America does it?
It will just create a black market for alcohol and fake IDs.
Even here it’s not unusual to see 14 and 15 year &shy;olds drinking so maybe they should be doing more to stop that happening than penalising the vast majority of people who know how to handle themselves.
I’m 18 and I feel responsible enough, mature enough, to go out for a drink and be able to handle myself.

