THE heartbroken mum of a pregnant Scot feared murdered by her preacher husband has posted a series of tributes to her online.
The body of Charmain Adusah, 41, was discovered by hotel staff face-down in a bath where it is believed she had been lying for four days.
Husband Eric Isaiah Adusah is being held on suspicion of murdering Charmain, who was three months pregnant when she was found on March 20.
Self-proclaimed prophet Adusah is alleged to have left the Mac-Dic Royal Plaza Hotel in Koforidua, Ghana, three days before the grim discovery.
Charmain has an eight-year-old son, Isaac, from a previous &shy;relationship but he has yet to be told about her death.
Her heartbroken mum Linda, 61, from Arbroath, posted a picture of an angel with a chick and a rabbit on her Facebook page.
It read: “Thinking of all our sweet angels who are spending Easter in Heaven. We love and remember you always.”
Linda also posted an image of a lit candle with the caption: “We light this candle in memory of our loved ones. We send our love and Easter wishes straight to Heaven.”
In response to a friend who asked after her grandson, she said: “Isaac is fine. He hasn’t been told yet xx.”
Charmain's brother Peter Speirs, of Glasgow, said:&quot;We are all devastated. The pastor is her next of kin and we have been told he is the only person who can release her body, even though he has been arrested for murder.
&quot;We can't even arrange a funeral.&quot;He said Charmain met the pastor after becoming a born again Christian.
Peter added:&quot;You could say it was a whirlwind romance.&quot; 
Friend Linsey Hogg posted a photo online of &shy;Charmain and wrote: “Her smile lit up any room and this is how I will always remember my beautiful friend.”
 

Relatives asked for her to be tagged by her maiden name.
Linda wrote: “Take away her married name xx”
And brother Peter replied: “I think the same, mum. It’s &shy;Charmain SPEIRS forever.”
Adusah, 28, is the leader of the Global Light Revival &shy;Ministries church based in Tottenham, London.
He has led sermons he describes as “divine visitation” events across the UK and Ireland, receiving &pound;1million in charitable donations.
The couple had travelled to Ghana so Adusah could preach at a religious conference hosted by controversial evangelist “Bishop” John Yaw Adu. Adu has previously been exposed for chaining up mentally ill patients at “prayer camps” so he could heal them.
Charmain and Adusah checked into the hotel on March 16 for five days.
Adusah is said to have left the following morning to fly back to London, telling the manager his pregnant wife was ill and did not want to be disturbed.
But staff became concerned they hadn’t seen her and she wasn’t responding to knocks on the door. Charmain’s body was found wrapped in a towel in the bath on March 20 by a porter.
 

A family friend said her parents were told the next day.
Christine Stephen claimed Adusah returned to Ghana and is now being held in custody in &shy;connection with her murder.
Christine, 42, of Camberley, Surrey, said: “I spoke to &shy;Charmain’s family and they said Eric had been in touch on that Saturday to say she had died.
“He said he was flying back to Ghana to identify her body on Sunday. He also told them he had returned to England because he had a three-day church event he had to attend.
“But he was vague about the details of what happened, saying she had wanted to remain out there to help underprivileged children.
“Charmain’s family couldn’t get hold of him after that Saturday, presumably because he had been arrested back in Ghana.”
The family want to go to Ghana to repatriate their daughter’s body but they cannot afford to do so. It is understood Charmain started following Adusah’s church two years ago and they got married last September after a whirlwind romance.
But Christine said none of her friends took to the preacher, who is originally from Ghana.
She said: “We thought he tried to cut her off from us, that he had brainwashed her.”
Her parents, Peter and Linda were unavailable for comment last night.
Try our news quiz below

