ANIMAL-RIGHTS campaigners are demanding an end to the killing of seals after it emerged 200 of the animals were shot around Scotland’s coast last year.
It comes amid global outrage at the start of the Canadian seal cull which will see thousands killed for their pelts in the coming weeks.
Figures show 205 seals were shot in Scotland last year, taking the total to 1400 over the last four years.
But campaigners fear the number could be even greater as the number of kills reported is not independently verified.
 

They say seals are shot in secluded costal areas and are demanding the Government ban the secret slaughter.
Andy Ottaway, director of the Seal Protection Action Group, said: “They are one of the big five animals the Scottish Government use to promote tourism to the country but people do not realise that behind the scenes slaughter is going on.
“Visitors have been left horrified when they have been on holiday and seen seals being shot at the beach in front of them and their children.
“One family cut their holiday short after seeing a dozen seals killed.”

Seals’ liking for salmon and trout brings them in to conflict with fish farming companies who insist killings are a last resort to prevent them from attacking underwater cages and snatching fish.
The Scottish salmon industry produces 155,000 tons of farmed fish a year, has annual exports of more than &pound;285million and provides thousands of jobs.
But campaigners say there is no need to kills seals and say fish farms should invest in anti-predator nets and acoustic deterrent devices.
 There have been no seal culls in Britain since 1978 when it was called off in Scotland in response to protests. 
 

Scott Landsburgh, chief executive of Scottish Salmon Producers’ organisation said: “The number of seals shot by salmon farmers has declined dramatically over recent years.
 “We have championed deterrence techniques that are designed to keep seals away from our fish, and shooting is always a last resort.” 
Our sister paper the Daily Mirror has been linked to the campaign against seal culling since their 1967 front page of a seal cub being clubbed to death became a poster image for the movement.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

