HIS portraits of Scottish celebrities are the toast of the expat New York glitterati at a posh gallery in super-cool SoHo.
But Glasgow artist Gerard Burns knows the real measure of his work’s worth lies closer to home.
The 54-year-old painter’s show has been one of the most talked about parts of the Scotland Week celebrations here in Manhattan.
Portraits of the likes of Billy Connolly, Ewan McGregor and Alan Cumming feature in the exhibition of the former teacher’s work.
A glittering launch last week saw many of his subjects step out at the gallery in Glasgow Caledonian University’s New York campus.
The Connolly likeness sold in aid of the National Trust for Scotland, boosting their coffers by &pound;40,000.
While Gerard revels in the Manhattan moment, he wants to take the work to another location where the celebrity turnout might not be quite so high.
The Cumbernauld artist said: “This is the most rarified cutting-edge art environment.
“I want to take this exhibition to Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston.
 

“Then let’s take the paintings to Easterhouse shopping centre. I won’t put a single piece of text on it, not a single explanation, and just watch the impact it has on people.
“It doesn’t matter who they are or where they’re from. When people see these paintings, they connect with them.
“People don’t need to have had an education in art or music on order to appreciate it.”
Graham spent seven months working on the paintings, jetting between the US and Scotland to photograph then paint, his sitters.
He put thousands of hours into producing portraits that include Elaine C Smith in panto, Breaking Bad star Laura Fraser and Glasgow’s Hollywood theme tune composer Craig Armstrong.
Graham said: “I’m fascinated by people and I get the opportunity to delve a bit deeper when I’m painting them.
“Everybody has something that makes then remarkable. But when people ask me to describe what it feels like to paint, I tell them it’s like eating or walking. It’s just what I do.”
Gerard, who says what he does is “just complicated colouring in”, also produced a collection of portraits for last year’s Commonwealth Games culture festival.
 

It included former Celtic boss Neil Lennon, actress Karen Dunbar, singer-songwriter Ricky Ross and tennis mum Judy Murray.
But he feels there’s one in his latest batch which could be a defining moment of his career – and a defining image of his subject. He said: “I think I made a bit of a classic with Nicola Sturgeon. We did it at Bute House and I think she was nervous.
“We couldn’t get the pose right. In a situation like that, the First Minister is trusting me with her likeness, to treat her with respect and sensitivity.
“I actually felt quite protective towards her. She’s a tough cookie but there’s something intensely personal about agreeing to something like this. I turned away at one point to fix my lights and, when I turned back, she was standing like that.
“It went from being a disaster to being in the bag. It says something about her confidence, youth and femininity.”
He also felt protective of Billy Connolly because of his struggle with Parkinson’s disease. Gerard said: “I wanted to put my arms around him.

“The shoot was challenging because of the ‘mask’ which comes over people with the disease. I asked him what he wanted and he said he wanted it to feature shipbuilding. It was absolutely perfect.
“The banjo is in there, although he can’t play it any more. But he isn’t daunted by it. He and his wife Pamela were up dancing at the auction and they were looking great.”
The proceeds from the sale – with the exception of the Connolly piece – go to the Prince &amp; Princess of Wales Hospice’s Brick by Brick appeal, to build a new facility in Glasgow.
Gerard walked in the Tartan Day Parade on Saturday with his family. Such Americanised pomp might make some feel uncomfortable to be celebrated merely for their birthright.
But Gerard paints the truest picture in response. He said: “Rather than being focused on our success we are driven often by our fear of failure.
“There’s that feeling of ‘Wow, we got away with it’. That wee boy we used to be is still in there.”
Try our quick showbiz quiz below:

