THE police hunt for an Irish student who failed to return home from a night out in Glasgow has been extended to sites across the north west of the city.
Karen Buckley, 24, disappeared after leaving the Sanctuary nightclub in the city's Dumbarton Road in the early hours of Sunday.
A police cordon remains outside Dawsholm Park, where her handbag was recovered yesterday and the search has moved on to nearby Dawsholm Industrial Park.
Officers say they are &quot;gravely concerned&quot; for the wellbeing of the student.
A specialist search team has also been examining the garden area of a taped-off block of flats where the man seen speaking to Karen outside the nightclub before her disappearance lives, on nearby Dorchester Avenue.
And a river rescue team from Belfast is on standby to assist Police Scotland's search. The lifeboat crew from Lagan Rescue have said they will travel to Scotland to assist with canal and river searches if required.
For all the latest updates on today's search follow our live blog here
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon commented on the student's disappearance on Wednesday afternoon, she said: &quot;Our thoughts and prayers are very much with Karen's family and friends.&quot;What her parents are going through must by unimaginable at this time.&quot;I have total confidence that the police are doing everything they can.&quot;
Police have traced the man and he said the pair travelled to his flat before she left the property at around 4am to make her way home to Hill Street in the Garnethill area.
Detective Superintendent Jim Kerr from Police Scotland said at a press conference on Tuesday that he is not a suspect.
Alexander Pacteau's mother today insisted her son is innocent
Police searched gardens of nearby neighbours before opening locked garages only a street away from the flat.
Specialist teams combed be area near the canal and carried out searches between the old wooden huts and peered inside the garages situated on a road off Clevenden Road.
A resident, who has been asked only to be identified as Anne, 57, said: &quot;I looked out my window this afternoon and could see the police searching the grass down by the garages behind the flats.
&quot;Behind our garages there is a dirt road with a number of locked garages and the police are just starting to search them.
&quot;The garages back on to woodland and then the canal.
&quot;The police have not been round our doors as yet, but locally people generally know each other and have been talking.
&quot;No-one seems to know anything, to have heard or seen anything.
&quot;I saw the man in the , but I've never seen him before in my life.
&quot;He has maybe just moved in.
&quot;I just live round the corner from that flat and have seen police carrying out really thorough searches.
&quot;This is a friendly place and a good area filled with students.
&quot;It's awful what may have happened.&quot;
The qualified nurse moved to Glasgow in February and is a first-year occupational therapy student at Glasgow Caledonian University.
Her family, from Cork in the Republic of Ireland, have flown to Scotland to help in the search.
Police did not reveal where in the park Miss Buckley's bag was found or its contents.
Yesterday, her mother Marian Buckley, 61, said: &quot;We just want Karen home safely, we are desperate. She is our only daughter, we love her dearly.
&quot;If anybody has any information, please come forward, we would dearly appreciate it.&quot;

Miss Buckley arrived at The Sanctuary with friends at around 11.45pm on Saturday and at around 1am she told them she was going to the toilet. She failed to return and did not take her jacket.
When last seen, she was wearing a black jumpsuit with red high-heeled shoes and was carrying a black handbag.
Police are keen to find out more about a grey car that was seen on the roads between Milngavie and Drymen north of Glasgow between 11am and 3pm on Monday.
Mr Kerr said: &quot;The activity of this grey car on the Monday is something that we're a wee bit concerned about. This car has been seen at various locations on these roads and I want to know why.
&quot;We are gravely concerned that Karen has come to some harm. Whether that is down to foul play, criminality or she has taken unwell or had an accident is obviously still to be established.&quot;
Her father John Buckley, 62, said the disappearance was &quot;so out of character&quot;.
He said: &quot;We are extremely concerned for her. We are desperate to get her back and safe with her family - she is our only daughter, we love her dearly and just want her to come home safe and sound.&quot;

