Stunning Swede Josefin Lustig is launching her own fashion label – for wee bhoys and girls.
The wife of Celtic defender Mikael was so tired of pastel-coloured children’s clothes that she’s decided to set up her own range.
Josefin has launched Little One &amp; I, which will sell unisex pieces in black, grey and white.
And she revealed some of the collection will be available in adult sizes too – so fashion-conscious mummies can match their little ones.
The couple’s three-year-old daughter Lucia and her six-month-old sister Lexie will be models for the range. Josefin credits them as the inspiration for the idea.
And she’s already been flooded with interest from fans of her fashion blog – including other players’ wives and girlfriends.
 

Josefin, 25, said: “This has been my dream for a while but it wasn’t until now that I felt like I had time to give it everything.
“I’m so excited to have my own thing. This is finally something for me.
“When I had Lucia, I found it interesting with the kids’ clothes. It was so hard to find something I liked because it’s always Minnie Mouse or Hello Kitty things. That’s not really me so I was always looking for something different for her.”
“That’s when I had the idea that I could design kids’ clothes.
“Although the business is only in the early stages, I’ve had lots of interest. A lot of people were asking me to make adult clothing too. So some of the pieces will be available in kids’ and adults’ sizes.
“I love to wear similar clothes to my girls and they like to match me too. I thought that would be fun.”
Josefin has become known for her edgy style since her arrival in Glasgow with Mikael four years ago.
Her blog – where she often poses with an outfit of the day – has become a must-follow for fashion fans.
And her husband is 100 per cent behind her – even coming up with the business name.
She said: “Mikael is very supportive of my ideas and he helped out with the name.
“He’s excited about it too. I think he’s happy because I have something that’s mine now.
“It’s called Little One &amp; I because it’s for kids and mums – I wanted a name reflecting that.
“Choosing the name was so difficult but I think this one is good.”
Josefin is impatiently awaiting the arrival of the first piece she designed – a grey bomber jacket – which is due back from suppliers this week.
She will then move on to creating trousers, T-shirts hoodies and baby-grows.
She said: “I’m getting so impatient. I just want to get started now and do more. But making sure everything is good quality is very important.
“I originally just tried to do printing but I wasn’t impressed so that’s why I now send the designs away to be made.
“It takes so much time but it will be worth it.”
And it might not be long before Josefin’s items are being modelled by other Celtic wives.
Some of the friends she has made since Mikael started playing for Celtic – including John Guidetti’s partner Sanna Dahlstrom and Virgil Van Dijk’s wife Rike Nooitgedagt – are desperate to get their hands on them.
Josefin said: “The girls I have met through Celtic have been so supportive.
“They’ve asked me to make adult sizes so hopefully they will be happy with the items available.
“It’s fun to hang out with them because we have the football in common and they know what it’s like.
“A couple of them are Swedish too, which is nice.”
Little One &amp; I will be available through the brand’s website, Instagram and Twitter. Follow it on Twitter and Instagram @littleoneandi
Try your hand at our showbiz quiz

