Cafe queen Domenica Di Rollo has revealed the secret to a long and healthy life – great Italian ice cream .
Now at the age of 94, Scotland’s grande dame of ice cream is helping to launch the Golden Cone Awards , our annual search for the best parlour in the land.
Domenica is head of the family who run the nation’s oldest ice cream business and, despite being decades past retirement age, she still pops in to make sure her beloved cafe in Musselburgh , East Lothian, is running smoothly.
The grandmother is encouraging everyone to support their favourite cafe in the Golden Cones because a little ice cream indulgence could just freeze the effects of time.
She said: “I’ve loved being in the business. It has been hard work but it has certainly kept me young.
“My secrets for a long life are a happy family, good food and good ice cream – especially Di Rollo’s ice cream, of course.”
Domenica and her family are among hundreds of artisan makers who have turned Scotland into one of the ice cream capitals of the world.
From little hole-in-the-wall kiosks to gleaming 50s-style parlours, from seafront cafes to slick city shops, there is a vast array of outlets serving their own unique version of the favourite treat.
 

We want to hear about the one that you think deserves special recognition in the form of our prestigious Golden Cone award.
Domenica said: “Any cafe owner would love to have this trophy. It shows you’re doing something right and that your customers care.
“Everybody loves a good cafe. The quality of the ice cream is crucial and having a good product definitely makes it easy to sell. Also, you really have to show you appreciate the fact that many customers will have travelled a long way. That’s the way I always felt because customers made an effort to buy our ice cream.”
The Di Rollos have been making ice cream in Musselburgh since 1897, shifting millions of gallons of their award-winning gelato in the past 118 years.
It was immigrant Domenico Di Rollo – Domenica’s father-in-law – who started the business after leaving behind life as a subsistence farmer in rural Italy to look for better opportunities in Victorian Scotland.
In those days, he would hand-churn a couple of gallons of ice cream in an old-fashioned salt and ice freezer but the small-scale enterprise quickly grew. Now his grandsons Reno and Kevin produce 650 litres an hour at their state-of-the-art factory near their shop, creating all sorts of flavours.
Reno, 66, said: “We still use the family recipe – a secret one – that was my grandfather’s.
“The methods of making ice cream are very different now but we retain the same basic recipe.
“The best seller is still vanilla but mint choc chip is a big favourite as well. We do mango sorbets and ice creams, toffee fudge, raspberry ripple, toffee ripple – the list goes on.
“I learned the trade at 18 from my dad. He used to dream up all sorts of flavours, go on holiday to Italy and come back full of ideas.
“But we do a lot of bespoke stuff now as well. Caterers contact us if a chef is looking for a savoury sorbet, like tomato or artichoke. We experiment with the flavours till we get it right.”
At the family shop – Elena Di Rollo in the town’s Bridge Street – Domenica’s daughter Elaine is in charge, having taken over the reins from her parents in 1986.
There are around 30 different flavours on offer alongside a selection of the Di Rollo’s speciality chocolates. And on warm days, the shop sees people queueing out the door and down the street.
Elaine said: “Mum has been a big inspiration to all of us. I’ve grown up with the ice cream business and started working here when I was about 15, with mum showing me the ropes.

 
“She’ll still come in to see how we’re getting on, though she tends to have a coffee these days rather than doing any serving. We’re well known in the town now and we’ve got lots of regulars. Customers who used to come here as children are still coming in with their grandchildren.
“People come in all the time and tell us they met their wife here or used to come to the cafe on dates.
“I think Scots and Italians have always had an affinity. Scottish people have a sweet tooth, which is definitely one of the reasons our business has been able to grow.
“But you never get fed up with ice cream. I work with it every day and I still love it.
“A nice hazelnut truffle flavour or perhaps an espresso flavour or maybe both together. You can’t beat it.”
Nominate your favourite below
    

