A veteran lawyer has been accused of causing a breach of the peace – in a court.
Angela Mullane, 71, is alleged to have threatened and abused court officials and staff, including a procurator fiscal.
The alleged incident happened while Mullane was attempting to speak to the female fiscal.
It’s understood she was trying to  persuade the woman to drop charges against one of her clients.
At one point, Mullane is alleged to have told the fiscal that the case against her client would have been ditched “if he  was black”.
 Police Scotland launched a probe into the alleged rammy at Glasgow Sheriff Court last month after complaints were made about Mullane’s conduct. 
She has been charged with breach of the peace and could appear in the dock  at the same court.
Mullane runs a legal practice in  Drumchapel, Glasgow and has been a lawyer for 36 years.
 She is well-known in legal circles and is nicknamed the Angel of Drumchapel. 
One legal source said: “Angela is not always the most popular person in the court, particularly with colleagues and the fiscals. The alleged outburst didn’t happen in open court but in a room within the court building.
“There were a number of people in the room and Mullane was asking for a case against one of her clients to be deserted by the Crown.
“It’s then claimed that she became threatening and abusive.”
 The Crown Office are now considering a report from Police Scotland . 
If convicted of the offence, Mullane could face a jail term of up to a year.
Mullane, a widow, has two grown-up children, and lives on a farm in Cardross, near Helensburgh.
She’s a close friend of writer Alasdair Gray and even gets a mention in one of his books, Old Men in Love.
Her late husband Chris Boyce was an acclaimed science fiction writer.
The Crown Office said: “The procurator fiscal has received a report concerning a 71- year-old female, in connection with an alleged incident in Glasgow.
“The case remains under consideration.”
Mullane declined to comment when  we called her office last week.

