AN ELECTRICIAN has told how his ears “melted off” in a high-voltage explosion after a giant defence firm ignored safety laws.
Stevie Delargey also suffered horrific burns to his hands and neck and was off work for almost a year as he endured terrifying flashbacks of the accident.
The 51-year-old was hired as a contractor to replace capacitors at Raytheon Systems’ bomb factory in Glenrothes – while the building’s electrical system was live.
 

A capacitor fell on to the live conductor, causing a “flashover” that severely injured Stevie and his C&amp;F Electrical Services colleague Russell Brand.
Stevie, who had carried out work on the plant for decades, had asked Raytheon to isolate the section he was working on from the electricity supply – but bosses at the American company refused, because they didn’t want to interrupt production.
He said: “I asked them to isolate the busbars – the main board we were working on that was still live – but they wouldn’t do it. They said it had to be on 24/7, 365 days a year.
“There was an electrical arc and it exploded in my face.
“My head went on fire and I had to pat it out with my hands. The skin was dripping off my face like wax. My ears were melting off – they’re smaller now.”
 

Raytheon, who last year made a profit of &pound;65million in the UK alone, were last week fined &pound;24,000 at Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court over the incident.
Prosecutors said the firm wanted to “cut costs at the expense of safety” and a Health and Safety Executive investigation found the work shouldn’t have gone ahead and that there was “no urgency” for the capacitors to be replaced.
Stevie hit out at the fine, saying: “I think &pound;24,000 is a paltry sum for a global company of that size.
“They put two workers in hospital by failing to adhere to the health and safety laws. I can’t even put a figure on that.
“Raytheon don’t allow us to work with them any more. I’d been working at that plant since I was 16, so I’m disappointed.”
After the accident in 2011, Stevie, from Kirkcaldy, spent four days in intensive care at Queen Margaret Hospital in Dunfermline before being moved to the specialist burns unit at Dundee’s Ninewells Hospital.
Recalling the traumatic event, his partner Carolyn Cruden, 51, said: “When he was being rushed to ospital, he looked at me and said, ‘It’s OK, we’ve just had a wee accident.’
“His whole head was like a big blister and his hands were black.
“The doctors were so surprised they didn’t need to do any skin grafts.”
Stevie, who has received about &pound;40,000 in compensation, added: “The skin on my hands is brand new now – it’s only three years old. I have to wear factor 50 every time I go out.”
But despite the horrific burns that left him with scars on his neck and hands, he said the most difficult thing to deal with was his mental health.
 

Stevie explained: “My head was all over the place. I got nightmares and flashbacks and recurring dreams about it.
“I was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and thought I’d never work again.
“It happened in December 2011 and I didn’t start back until the next November.
“But I got a lot of help. Carolyn was incredible, she helped me with everything, from getting dressed to eating.
“My work were very good with me and allowed me to have a staggered return.
“I had an occupational therapist, a physiotherapist and psychotherapist.
“The PTSD was the worst, though. It’s a terrible thing. I think I’ve near enough fully recovered now, although I still have thoughts about it.”
Last August, we revealed how laser-guidance systems made at Raytheon’s Glenrothes factory were used in the smart bombs dropped during Israel’s aerial bombardment of Gaza.
Their huge Paveway II bombs were used during the 2014 assault.
Raytheon and Glenrothes-based C&amp;F Electrical Services both pled guilty to two charges on indictment under the Electricity at Work Regulations 1989.
C&amp;F Electronic Services have improved their health and safety standards since the accident.
A Raytheon spokesman said: “Since the regrettable incident, we have performed thorough reviews of all our procedures, employee and contractor training, and the monitoring of such procedures.
“Health and safety in the workplace is of paramount importance to Raytheon.”
Test your knowledge with our news quiz:

