 AUTHOR Irvine Welsh has revealed how Alex Salmond and Sean Connery once tried to get him to join the SNP. 
The former first minister and the James Bond film legend took Welsh to lunch in an unsuccessful bid to woo him.
 The Trainspotting author said: “I wasn’t interested but they were really nice about it and not pushy at all.” 
 He added he’d not yet met Salmond’s successor but believes Nicola Sturgeon’s leadership is “a great move for the SNP”. 
Chicago-based Welsh said he was now closer to joining the SNP, adding: “Twenty years ago, I would have been very anti-independence.”
“I’ve still got an emotional attachment to a Labour party that no longer exists. I don’t think I’m a party guy. I’m probably more useful to a cause not being in a party.”
In an interview to publicise his 10th novel, A Decent Ride, the Edinburgh-born writer says he’s still a regular visitor back home.
He said: “In some ways it feels like a different country already.
 “I think it’s got that confidence now, whatever its future is – whether it’s an independent country or a change-maker within the UK. I’m seeing it with very different eyes now.” 
 


Welsh – once notorious for his party lifestyle – revealed he no longer goes clubbing. But he admitted he had some friends round for an “all-nighter” in February. And he told the Guardian that the last time he took class-A drugs was in December – when he was back in Scotland.
He said last week: “Scotland is still a terrible influence.
“I’ve not had a drink since January 2 and I’ve been here for two days and I can already feel the pull of it, in a way that I just don’t in the US.”
Asked what he liked about being Scottish, he said: “There’s just something really cool about it, I can’t put my finger on it.
“When you travel the world, people are really interested in your accent and sometimes they can’t quite place it or it becomes a great conversation piece.
“I just find it such a fascinating place. It feels like some sort of inherent blessing.”
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

