A former MP who served Renfrewshire in the House of Commons for almost 15 years has died after a sudden illness.
Tommy Graham, 71, was described as “larger than life” by his family, who say he will be sadly missed.
The one-time Labour stalwart, who was first elected to Westminster in 1987, was admitted to Paisley’s Royal Alexandra Hospital earlier this week after becoming ill.
Mr Graham died there on Thursday, with his family saying his passing was “sudden but peaceful.”
His son, Thomas junior, told the Paisley Daily Express: “My dad was a wonderful character, who cared deeply about his family.
“To others, Tommy was larger than life. He will be sadly missed by his family, friends, neighbours and everybody who knew him.
“My mother Joan, my brother John and myself are all devastated.”
Mr Graham was born in 1943 and grew up in Glasgow, where he worked as an engineer before becoming a member of Strathclyde Regional Council.
He was elected as the Labour MP for the old Renfrew West and Inverclyde seat at the 1987 General Election, defeating Tory rival Anna McCurley.
Following boundary changes, he was elected as MP for the new seat of Renfrewshire West in 1997.
However, his political career suffered a devastating blow the following year when he was expelled from the Labour Party following the suicide of his parliamentary colleague Gordon McMaster.
Mr Graham was accused of a blackmail plot after Mr McMaster’s death and, despite his categorical denials, he was ousted from the party following an inquiry, which he branded a “sham.”
He remained at Westminster as an independent MP until retiring ahead of the 2001 General Election, vacating the seat, which is now known as Paisley and Renfrewshire North.
Jim Sheridan, who succeeded Mr Graham as Renfrewshire West MP in 2001 and hopes to retain the Paisley and Renfrewshire North seat at next month’s General Election, told the Express: “It’s true to say that Tommy was larger than life.
“He had a very good reputation when he was down at Westminster.
“It was just one of those things that, politically, it turned out the way it did for Tommy in the end but my heart goes out to his family at this time of loss.
“Tommy was a good Labour man and he will be sadly missed by many people in the community.”
Following his retirement, Mr Graham was often seen with his beloved pet dog Murdo – a West Highland Terrier.
Thomas junior, from Linwood, added: “Dad’s death was sudden but peaceful and we are just trying to take it all in.
“Murdo is also mourning dad, who loved his wee dog.”
Mr Graham’s funeral will take place at Woodside Crematorium, in Paisley, on Friday, April 24, starting at 2pm.
Larger than life  Tommy Graham
