WHILE Al Pacino always dreamed of performing, his initial plan was a long way away from the movie roles that won him fame.
His big break came as ruthless Michael Corleone in The Godfather but, deep down, Pacino wanted to clown around in the circus.
As a boy, he wanted nothing more than to run away to the big top – and he still does.
Pacino, 74, who brings his one-man show to Glasgow next month, said: “As a kid, I always had this idea of joining the circus. I’d have been a clown.
“Somewhere it’s still a fantasy of mine, I think it’s the anonymity attached to it. It’s a bit of daydream.”

It’s hardly surprising that one of the world’s most recognisable movie stars would like a little privacy.
And he admits his kids – Julie Marie, 26, and twins Anton James and Olivia Rose, 14 – have missed out on many normal family experiences due to his stardom.
He said: “If ever I have any moments of anonymity it’s pretty much a luxury. I’m fine not having it, I’ve learned how to live with it.
“But my kids have a difficult time going out publicly with me. We’ve never really been able to do anything like go on a camping trip.”
Pacino says the worldwide success of The Godfather in 1972 was a shock and he struggled to adjust to the massive changes in his life.
 

He said: “I never intended to be a movie star. I didn’t become an actor to become famous but it happened after The Godfather.
“It complicated the 1970s for me. I was a bit of a wild guy and I was living in this kind of explosion after it all.
“But I stopped drinking in 1977 and just focused on the work.”
That is where his focus has remained since. His strong work ethic was inherited from his Italian grandad, who, he says, was his greatest influence.
He said: “My grandfather and my mom Rose taught me about being passionate about something. He had a great joy in his work. I saw and wanted that.
“My mom was an usherette at the movies. I’d go with her then act out the parts the next day for one of my aunts.”
Even though he was homeless and unemployed after drama college, Pacino insists money is not what drives him.
He said: “Passion is what drives me. Work, art, life – as long you have the drive, you keep going.
“Sometimes I think about slowing down but while there is passion, I want to follow it.
“Acting becomes second nature when you’ve been doing it as long as me, it’s almost unthinkable to think of quitting.
“Sure, I’m aware of getting old but I can still do it.”
While Pacino is regarded as the actors’ actor, with even huge stars in awe of him, he goes out of his way to make co-stars feel at ease.
He said: “They soon get over it. Anyway, I sing Yankee Doodle Dandy to them and it works every time.
“They realise we’re in a process of working on something together.”
He also has great respect for many of his peers.
“Robert De Niro is a great actor, Bobby’s comic performances are pure genius,” Pacino added.
“Johnny Depp, nobody in the world is funnier than him, nobody has made me laugh that much. And Sean Penn is a great talent.”
He’s certainly a fan of actresses. Pacino is renowned for dating his co-stars including Diane Keaton, Beverly D’Angelo, Penelope Ann Miller and current girlfriend Lucila Sol&aacute;.
Pacino has never married – not through any conscious decision though.
He said: “I have dated a few actresses, but I’ve dated other women too.
“I don’t know why I’ve never married. I don’t think about it.
“My mother and father divorced when I was two…there’s a high divorce rate.
“But none of that’s conscious. I guess it’s just more complicated than I admit to myself.”
He’s also famous for turning down roles in what went on to be huge movies or franchises, from Pretty Woman to Die Hard.
But again, he has no regrets. He said: “Pretty Woman? I’d probably have brought the movie down!
“I couldn’t see myself in the part. Richard Gere did it really well, I couldn’t have done that. I turned down Star Wars too, I didn’t understand it.”
Next up for the actor is a departure from the big screen – a series of theatre shows allowing fans a rare insight into the man himself.
An Evening With Al Pacino is touring the UK, taking in a date at Glasgow’s Clyde Auditorium on May 19.
And he’s very excited about his first visit to Scotland.
He said: “I’m looking forward to seeing the legendary scenery.
“Glasgow will be a highlight of the tour for me and I’m looking forward to experiencing a warm Scottish welcome and sharing an evening of engaging conversation and laughter with my Scottish fans.”
Pacino fans heading to Glasgow for his Q&amp;A show next month can expect incredible insights into the life and mind of their idol.
At previous Evening With Al Pacino shows he has been remarkably candid, revealing everything from the best kisser he’s worked with to the actors he’s given a helping hand.
He staged similar shows in New York, Sydney and London last year and feedback from fans was overwhelmingly positive.
In the show at the London Palladium last June, he revealed his favourite screen clinch was with Michelle Pfeiffer in 1991 hit Frankie and Johnny.
He said: “Michelle was a good kisser, Michelle Pfeiffer”.
But the star – who has had several relationships with co-stars – claimed Michelle wasn’t his best leading lady.
He quipped: “She’s out there and we’ve not met yet.”
It’s well-known that Pacino turned down several high-profile roles, including Richard Gere’s part in Pretty Woman and Harrison Ford’s in Star Wars.
Of Gere, he said: “I gave that boy a career.
“You know who else I gave a career to? Harrison Ford in Star Wars – that role was mine for the taking but I couldn’t understand the script.”
After questions from fans, the two-hour show finished with a solo stint reading poetry.
He brought down the house with stunning performances of Somewhere I Have Never Travelled by EE Cummings and Oscar Wilde’s Ballad of Reading Gaol.
Doubtless the show will have evolved in the last six months, but it’s safe to say fans of one of acting’s true greats are in for a rare treat.
Tickets for Pacino’s Glasgow show are available now at www.gigsinscotland.com
Test your knowledge with our showbiz quiz:

