FRIENDS and colleagues of Karen Buckley have raised over &pound;30,000 to help her family.
Police probing the disappearance of the 24-year-old Irish student from the sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow recovered remains on farmland on the outskirts of the city early this morning.
A 21-year-old man has been arrested and is expected to face charges at Glasgow Sheriff Court on Friday in connection with the death of Miss Buckley.
As police maintained a presence at High Craigton Farm today, donations poured into a fund set up by her former classmates from Limerick University.
The appeal has so far received pledges of more than &pound;30,000 to assist Miss Buckley’s family, who travelled to Scotland from Cork when their daughter was reported missing.
Friends raised the alarm on Sunday morning after she failed to return from the Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow’s Dumbarton Road.
During the night out she told friends she was going to the toilet around 1am but failed to return and did not take her jacket with her.
Human remains found around eight miles away at farmland off the A809 road have yet to be formally identified but Miss Buckley’s family have been informed.
Searches had previously focused on Dawsholm Park, where her handbag was found on Tuesday, and a property in the city’s Dorchester Avenue.
Miss Buckley moved to Scotland in February and was a first-year occupational therapy student at Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU).
She had previously worked at the Princess Alexandra Hospital in Essex.
The university said: “The GCU community is deeply saddened by the recent police reports in the media regarding Karen Buckley.
“Our thoughts are with Karen’s family, friends and classmates at this very difficult time.
“GCU’s student support service, our academic staff and the advice centre at @GCUSA are available to any students who need support.”
Charlie Flanagan, Ireland’s minister for foreign affairs, said thoughts and prayers were with Miss Buckley’s parents John, 62, and Marian, 61.
He added: “On behalf of the government, I wish to express appreciation for all that has been done by the Scottish authorities, and especially Police Scotland in Glasgow, to find Karen and to support the Buckley family throughout this very difficult time.”
Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: “My thoughts today are very much with the family and friends of Karen Buckley.”
At a press conference on Tuesday, Mr and Mrs Buckley pleaded for information about their missing daughter.
They are being supported by Miss Buckley’s brothers Brendan, 32, Kieran, 28, and Damian, 27.
The fund, which closes at 9.30pm tonight, can be found at: http://www.gofundme.com/s3k8ry2jg.

