A MAN has appeared in court charged with the murder of student Karen Buckley.

Alexander Pacteau appeared at Glasgow sheriff court today, where he was charged with murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
The 21-year-old made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody. He is expected to appear again next week for a further hearing.
Miss Buckley’s parents were among hundreds attending a vigil in the city’s George Square earlier today.
Organised by former Scottish Socialist Party MSP Rosie McGarvey Kane, the event followed the raising of more than &pound;50,000 for Miss Buckley’s family through an online appeal by her former classmates at Limerick University.
The Go Fund Me page was set up to cover the family’s travel and expenses while in Scotland and to support the upkeep of their farm in Cork. It raised more than 10 times the original target amount.
During the vigil, members of the public laid flowers in Miss Buckley’s memory.
In a speech, Ms McGarvey Kane said: “Karen was a beautiful, trusting, intelligent young woman who was taken and we need to address that.
“We need a look at that. On another day we will talk about it in other terms.
“At the moment we need to care and send so much love to her family.”
Following a minute’s silence, a lone piper played The Lament for Limerick.
A number of people sang songs including one especially written that day for Miss Buckley.
The crowd also sang a rendition of Danny Boy. 
Friends of Miss Buckley raised the alarm on Sunday morning when she failed to return from a night out at The Sanctuary nightclub in the West End of Glasgow.
The search led police to Dawsholm Park, where Miss Buckley’s handbag was found on Tuesday, and a property in the city’s Dorchester Avenue, before the farm where the discovery was made.
A Crown Office spokesperson said: “Alexander Pacteau, 21, from Glasgow, appeared at Glasgow Sheriff Court charged with the murder of Karen Buckley, and with attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
“He made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody.
“It is anticipated he will appear again next week for a further hearing.”
Miss Buckley, from Cork in Ireland, moved to Scotland in February and was a first-year occupational therapy student at Glasgow Caledonian University.
Her father, John Buckley, 62, said she was an outgoing girl who “thoroughly enjoyed life”.
In a statement released earlier this week, Mr Buckley said his daughter was “cherished” by her family and would be missed “terribly”.

