POLICE bosses face having to pay out almost &pound;1.4million in compensation – to their own staff.
A total of 62 claims from former and serving officers have been lodged against Police Scotland over the last two years with 57 still to be settled.
They include officers being hurt in the line of duty, breaches of health and safety and equality issues.
Just five cases have been settled – including one community police officer who successfully sued the force over her wrongful arrest.
 So far, Police Scotland have paid out &pound;23,070 to claimants but worried chiefs have set aside &pound;1,378,000 to cover the remaining cases. 
They say the figure is a “worst case scenario” and the payout could end up being smaller.
News of the ring-fenced cash for  compensation comes as considerable cuts are being made to police budgets.
 Chief constable Sir Stephen House has even admitted “extreme measures” are needed to balance the budget. 
Last night, union officials voiced concern and warned that stretched resources brought on by the cuts could result in more compensation claims.
Brian Docherty, chairman of the  Scottish Police Federation – who act  for rank and file officers – said: “There are many reasons why police officers may need to instigate proceedings against the chief constable.
“The SPF is there to look after our members when these arise.
“The most common claims are for officers injured on duty but other examples include breaches of health and safety or equality provisions and even failures in police procedures.
“Some of the treatment of members and the injuries they sustain can be horrific and life-changing and we use the full force of the law to protect them.
“On the face of it, &pound;1.4million is a large sum of money. But despite the belief that health and safety and equality compliance is expensive, failing to abide by it is more so.
“The SPF is mindful that increasing demand and diminishing resources may result in pressure to cut corners and lead to increased claims in the future.”
The Sunday Mail had requested details of police compensation claims for the  past five years.
But Police Scotland refused to  provide any information that  pre-dated the single force being set up on cost grounds.
Figures obtained by the Sunday Mail show that of the five settled claims, one officer received &pound;8500, another was granted &pound;6500 and two were  given &pound;4000.
Police Scotland refused to give details of the exact nature of each claim but they include an award of &pound;4000 in damages to Gwen Louden after she sued the force following her wrongful arrest on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.
Sheriff Kevin Veal said her arrest – following a probe into an alleged assault – was “unjustified, unnecessary and unlawful”. Louden, a community officer in Tayside at the time, says she was left feeling “belittled and grossly humiliated” after her arrest.
She had to take five months’ leave before being redeployed in a different role.
Ex-officer Brian Hancock’s &pound;500,000 claim for hurting his thumb while on duty is still ongoing.
The 51-year-old says he lost the use of his left hand after a drunk woman grabbed his thumb and bent it backwards during a call-out in 2006. He claims he has also suffered psychological damage and lost out on earnings.
Politicians yesterday demanded  more transparency about the money  being paid out.
 A Labour spokesman said: “It’s  worrying that Police Scotland might have to pay out this massive sum to past or serving police officers. 
“These officers are entitled to justice, but what’s going on in Police Scotland when officers are due this level of  compensation?
“Morale seems to be at an all-time low and many officers are being put under extreme pressure to meet targets. Police Scotland should be spending their money on supporting officers, not compensating them for problems caused by senior managers.”
Scottish Conservative justice spokeswoman Margaret Mitchell added: “This is a huge amount of money at a time when police budgets are stretched to the limit and when invaluable support staff are being laid off.
“There must be complete transparency and accountability about circumstances which lead to these payments.”
A Police Scotland spokesman said: “Customarily, reserves are placed at the upper end of the ‘worst case’ scenario envisaged.
“The reserves generally far exceed the actual cost, and expenses, in claims that eventually do settle.”
Meanwhile, a new report shows that dozens of officers are injured each month by members of the public.
The force said 71 staff members were attacked while on duty during February this year, 47 of which took place while they were carrying out arrests.

