A friend of Karen Buckley said she is haunted by the thought of her pal’s body being found on an isolated farm.
Denyse O’Brien said she was shocked when she first found out her neighbour, who had grown up in Mourneabbey, North Cork, was missing.
She described how this turned to horror when she heard the news early on Thursday that Karen’s body had been discovered in Glasgow.
Ms O’Brien told the Limerick Today programme on Live 95FM: “I find myself that, it’s something very sad, [how Karen] coming from a loving farm and ending up in a farm in another place.
“That to me I find very upsetting, for everybody obviously.”
The 30-year-old student, who went to primary school with Karen and her brothers Damien and Kieran, told how the news of Karen's disappearance has united the community, reports the Irish Mirror.
 

She said: “We had a Mass [on Thursday night] and I left [the adjoining school] 18 years ago and all of the class the year I left were there and the church was full, people were standing, it was packed to capacity.
“There were people standing outside, there were still hundreds standing outside. It was very sad... all those times that we would have been in that church together as a school was for nativity plays and Communions and Confirmations.
 

“In Karen’s class there was just about five girls in it and all those other girls were there with their parents and those parents were [crying] because it could have been any one of those girls. It could have been any one of them.”
Ms O’Brien described Karen as a person who was always at ease with herself, “one of those girls that is introvert and is happy to be introvert without having to be extrovert”.
She said over the past few days she feared the worst for her friend.
Ms O’Brien added: “I straight away went online to Kieran because I would talk to him a couple of times a week.
&quot;We just started chatting back and forth, and the immediate sense of, ‘Oh my God’ turned into this long term sense of ]dread] ‘Oh God what’s coming’.”
 

Karen’s brothers, who were working in Australia, made the grim journey home to Cork on Thursday.
Meanwhile, the local community have rallied together united in their grief for the loss of their beloved local nurse.
Praising the community’s efforts Ms O’Brien said: “But to have been in Mourneabbey last night and to have seen everybody come together, the elderly people, our former local bishop who’s in a nursing home now because he’s quite ill, but he came back out to help say the mass, and so many people gathered around.”
 

She added her friend had done nothing wrong in leaving the nightclub alone in the moments before she went missing.
Ms O’Brien added: “There’s not one of us that wasn’t out on a night that, for some reason or another thought, ‘Oh I’ll just take off’, whether you just felt like you’d had enough to drink or you wanted to go somewhere.
 

“She most definitely would have texted or sent a [Facebook] message, and I’m just glad that the police took it seriously enough and acted quickly enough, because we see a lot of the times where people have to wait 24 to 36 hours before they are a missing person.
&quot;Their promptness has really helped the family I suppose.”
