FRONTLINE ambulance crews took more than 50,000 hours off work due to stress last year.
This equates to the loss of over 4200 12-hour shifts or more than 6300 eight-hour shifts over the course of the year.
And it works out at the equivalent of two days off for stress for every single frontline member of staff in Scotland.
Unions voiced concern over the figures and called for more to be done to help workers.
 A special mental health initiative set up to support NHS employees also urged those feeling the strain to reach out for help. 
There were 1305 paramedics employed by the Scottish Ambulance Service at the end of last year. Between them, they took 33,150 hours off citing stress-related illnesses.
A further 17,612 hours were lost by ambulance technicians. Sources say the scale of the problem may be even greater as staff often cite other ailments when the actual cause of an absence is psychological.
Among the conditions that were reported were insomnia, irritability, mood swings and anxiety – all of which can be brought on by stress.
Matt McLaughlin, Unison’s regional organiser for health in Scotland, said: “We’re concerned that stress is a major problem in this sector, despite more than a decade of attention to this issue.
“It’s a complex issue but simple measures such as adequate staffing, proper break times and making sure people are properly trained could go a long way to dealing with the root causes of stress.”
 

Tony McLaren, national co-ordinator for Breathing Space and NHS Living Life, who offer a confidential helpline for those struggling with mental health issues, said: “Ambulance staff – and many others in the emergency services – deal with difficult situations on a daily basis.
“People who wish to speak about the stresses they are under should not see that as a sign of weakness. In fact, it can be a sign of strength.
“Help is available anonymously and people should not be afraid to reach out for it.”
Martin Berry, of the College of Paramedics, said: “There has been poor investment in the training and development of new paramedics over recent years.
“This has resulted in a national shortage which adds to the demands placed upon those currently in practice.”
The Scottish Ambulance Service said they work closely with staff and unions to help prevent stress among their staff.
A spokeswoman added: “Staff can self-refer to occupational health and other support services, which provides quick access to the most appropriate help for anyone who needs it. Occupational health arrangements are monitored and reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that staff are provided with the best possible support.”
 Scottish Labour’s health spokeswoman Jenny Marra said: “These shocking figures show the level of pressure our NHS is under. 
 “We’ve seen an A&amp;E crisis on the SNP’s watch and now we’re seeing huge numbers of staff illness. 
“The reality is we need more investment in our NHS.”
 

John, an ambulance technician in his 20s, has experienced what he describes as “severe” stress on the job.
He admitted: “The hours are long and unpredictable.
“You sometimes don’t know your shifts until the week before so planning a life isn’t that easy.
“Then shifts can go on for 14 hours.”
John, who is based in central Scotland, added: “The job is inherently stressful and sometimes it’s quite severe. You’re dealing with life and death on a daily basis.
“You might need to go into domestic abuse situations or other violent scenarios so there’s an underlying risk to your own safety.
“I’ve experienced the classic signs of stress, including concentration issues which undermines your ability to do your job well and safely.
“Other problems are irritability, disrupted sleep, headaches and just a general feeling of nervousness.
“New technicians can earn in the region of &pound;16,000 a year. It’s a lot of work for not a lot of money.”
Stuart Gray, author of A Paramedic’s Diary, Life And Death On The Streets, said: “The stress of the job has made me ill on several occasions.
“We are continually hammered from the moment we sign on duty. There is virtually no respite.
“The biggest stress is being asked to deal with things that are not emergencies – such as drunks or people who have been nursing a cough for two weeks.”
  Police Scotland face huge payouts to their own officers as 62 cops sue force for &pound;1.4m 
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

