ELITE athletes rubbed shoulders with both amateurs and kids at today's Morrisons Great Edinburgh Run.
Over 5,000 people pulled on their trainers to complete the 10-mile event.
For the first year ever, runners could compete in teams of two - allowing them to split the distance between them as they ran past some of the capital’s best sights including Holyrood Palace, Arthur’s Seat, Greyfriars Bobby and Edinburgh Castle.
Ethiopia’s Tsedat Abeje Ayana was first over the finish line in the 10 miler, completing the route in 48:44, followed by Andrew Lemoncello in a time of 50:02 and Peter Huck who secured third place in 50:30.

The first woman finisher was England’s Jess Coulson who came in at 56:06, with Scot Rhona Auckland runner up in 56:12 and Ireland’s Maria McCambridge third in 56:21.
 

 Comedian and  columnist Des Clarke set off the first wave of runners before joining his colleague Steven Mill for the Team Relay. 
Husband and wife acting team Cal MacAninch (Mr Selfridge, HolbyBlue, Silent Witness) and Shauna MacDonald (Filth, The Descent, Spooks) came first in the mixed Team Relay in a time of 01:02:26
The Morrisons Mini Great Edinburgh Run (1.5k for ages 3 – 8) and the Morrisons Junior Great Edinburgh Run (2.5k for ages 9 – 15) took place in the afternoon, and also proved popular with younger athletes.

Councillor Richard Lewis, Festivals and Events Champion for the City of Edinburgh Council, said: “It was a spectacular sight to see thousands of runners snake around the city centre and Arthur’s Seat for the Morrisons Great Edinburgh Run and it was fantastic that so many spectators came to show their support. Well done everyone who took part.”
 

And Andy Mitchelmore from event organisers, The Great Run Company, said: “It is always exciting to see so many runners take to the roads of Edinburgh, passing so many iconic buildings along the way.
“The Morrisons Great Edinburgh Run has been a key fixture in the Scottish running calendar since 2005 and the introduction of the ten mile course last year was a great success.”
 Try our quick daily news quiz below: 

