FORMER Labour MSP Tom McCabe has died at the age of 60, the party has said.
Scotland’s first ever MSP died yesterday at the age of 60.
Labour’s Tom McCabe made history when his victory in the Hamilton South constituency was declared 75 minutes after polls closed in the first Holyrood Parliament election in 1999.
He held the seat for the next 12 years, during which time McCabe was a minister for parliamentary business, deputy minister for health and community care and minister for finance.
The popular politician died at his home in Hamilton after a long fight with cancer.
Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy yesterday led tributes to McCabe.
He said: “The thoughts and prayers of everybody in the Scottish Labour movement are with Tom McCabe’s family today. That he has died at such a relatively young age and with so much still to give makes it harder to understand and accept.
“Tom McCabe was a good man. He was a dedicated servant of the Labour movement and was a radical finance minister in the last Scottish Labour government.
“I always enjoyed Tom’s company – except on the golf course, where I could never beat him.
“The dignity he showed in hisfinal few months should act as aninspiration to us all. He will be hugely missed.”
Shadow Scottish Secretary Margaret Curran added: “Very sad news about Tom McCabe.
“He was very good to me over the years and will be missed greatly.
“My thoughts and prayers are with his family.”
Nicola Sturgeon also paid tribute to Mr McCabe.
The First Minister tweeted: “Very sad to hear of the death of former Labour MSP Tom McCabe.
“He was a genuinely good guy. My thoughts are with his wife and family.”
Six years ago, McCabe’s wife Shuming had a daughter Ava.
Scottish Parliament Presiding Officer Tricia Marwick, said: “Tom was devoted to his family, in particular to his wee daughter Ava. His joy when she was born and his delight in watching her grow was apparent to all around him.
“Tom made an immense contribution to the Parliament and his expertise has been sorely missed since 2011.”
Former Labour First Minister Jack McConnell said: “Tom was a major influence on local and nationalpolitics in modern Scotland.
“His judgment and commitment were obvious to all who knew him.
“From the smoking ban to parliamentary standards, Tom’s legacy is considerable.
“His roots and his family were at the core of his life.”
McCabe’s political career lasted until 2011, when he lost his seat to the SNP’s Christina McKelvie.

