 SCOTLAND’S medical meltdown has been laid bare by a surgery where just two doctors are left to help 10,000 patients. 
 Five of the seven GPs at Kersiebank Medical Practice in Grangemouth have left since January. The exodus is evidence of the GP shortage crisis facing the NHS in Scotland. 
Patients have had to queue outside the surgery at 8am just to get an appointment that day.
A telephone triage system has been branded a disgrace after patients were left hanging on the phone for up to 90 minutes.
Many of those who tried to get appointments were told there were no slots left – and to go through the same farcical phone process the following day.
Some patients tried for a week for an appointment.
Triage is supposed to make the system fairer with surgery staff arranging for a doctor or nurse to ring the patient back hours later.
But the system means working people have to sacrifice at least a day’s work as they hang around waiting to be seen.
Janet Cave, 56, had tried several times for an appointment before succeeding on Tuesday.
She said: “I phoned the surgery on Monday morning to get an appointment and was No59 in the queue.
“I spent a fortune on my mobile phone bill. Eventually I got a receptionist who said that I was too late and there were no appointments left.
“She said I would have to try again the next day.
“I phoned again and eventually got my name on the list and the doctor phoned me back with an appointment.”
The practice this week urged patients not to turn up in person but each morning has seen people queue at the surgery.
Kersiebank is being taken over by the NHS Forth Valley on May 1, with new staff brought in as they try to recruit GPs to fill the gaps.
But Grangemouth MP Michael Connarty slammed the health board’s slow reaction.
He said: “This has gone from a staffing problem to a full-blown crisis and the health board have not responded with enough urgency. We have known that the practice was to be two doctors down and two others to follow for a couple of months.
 

“The health board should have taken over by the start of April.
“They have seen this coming and not given heed to the demeaning and stressful situation faced by people needing the help of a GP.
“What is happening in Grangemouth is possibly symptomatic of what seems to be emerging all over Scotland.
“I have it from a good source that GPs can do better by leaving practice work and getting locum contracts.
“I also believe there is a pattern of stressed-out GPs negotiating part-time contracts and, of course, many GPs are retiring.”
 The Grangemouth fiasco came to light just a day after the British Medical Association warned that a third of Scottish GPs hope to retire in the next five years – sparking a staffing crisis . A fifth of Scottish practices are already short-staffed. 
BMA spokesman Dr Andrew Buist said: “General practice is already woefully short-staffed and unless urgent action is taken to improve recruitment and retention of GPs, patient care will be compromised and the Government’s flagship integration reforms will likely fail.”
Supermarket worker Jacqueline Forbes, 47, was forced to turn up at the surgery before her shift because, like many patients, she can’t take phone calls at work.
She said: “I went down at 8am on Monday and there were loads of people there by the time the surgery opened at half-past. I filled in a form and was told a doctor would phone me later.
“I discovered at work that I had a missed call, which I presume was from the practice. I had to go back the next day and sort it out all over again.”
Paul Murray, 48, turned up at the practice last Wednesday and was given a ticket. He said: “I was No22 and there were 10 people seen before me. I got an appointment for 11.20am, which meant hanging about for three hours.”
Retired council worker William Dodds, 68, also slammed the ticketing system. He was 28th in the queue when he went to the surgery.
He said: “It seemed a ridiculous way to do things. I don’t see why you couldn’t just phone up and get an appointment.”
One patient told how they found themselves 62nd in the phone queue despite calling right on opening time. She said: “At 1.20pm, I got a phone call back from a doctor saying to come into the surgery at 2.50pm the same day.
“It’s a disgrace that I have to set aside a whole day on the off-chance of me actually getting an appointment.
“I can’t take calls at work but how am I meant to say to my employer that I’m taking a day off in case I get an appointment with my GP?”
NHS Forth Valley said Kersiebank’s catchment area had been reduced to tackle the crisis. The board said they will take over the practice on May 1 after waiving a standard six-month notice period in the interests of patients and surgery staff.
A spokesman said: “Although the medical practice has advertised for replacement doctors, like a number of GP practices across the UK, it has been unable to recruit GPs.
 “Work is under way to recruit a  team of salaried GPs, employed by the health board, who would be able to provide support to Kersiebank and other local practices which are  experiencing similar capacity challenges.” 
The practice website warns patients: “You may be aware of the current national GP shortage and, as such, we have not been able to find any GP replacements and are struggling to find locum GPs to help.
“This leaves the practice in a very difficult situation. Therefore, from March, only ‘on the day’ appointments will be available.”
 A Scottish Government spokeswoman said: “Under this government, spending on GP services has increased by &pound;69.7million, or 10 per cent, and  the number of GPs has increased by 6.9 per cent. 
“We are aware of the difficulties in recruitment that are affecting Kersiebank. NHS Forth Valley have agreed to take over temporary responsibility for the practice to maintain high-quality local medical service.”

