SCOTS cancer patients are waiting up to six hours for an ambulance after gruelling chemotherapy sessions.
And volunteer drivers who helped alleviate the lengthy waits have been sidelined by the Scottish Ambulance service in favour of their own scant resources.
Now patients fear waiting times will further increase as the under pressure service struggles to meet the demand.
Cancer sufferer Anne Camps, 72, says she regularly has to wait up to six hours for ambulances to take her home after chemotherapy at the Beatson clinic in Glasgow.
Anne had breast cancer 21 years ago but it returned three years ago and brought with it secondary cancers in her lungs, spine, hip and liver.
She has been receiving chemotherapy on a regular basis for several years.
Anne’s husband George, 74, had a dense stroke five years ago which left him paralysed down one side and she has to rely on the patient transport service run by the Scottish Ambulance Service.
She said: “My appointments are around 11am and it takes about two hours to have my chemotherapy.
“I can get picked up any time from 8am and often we have to drop off patients at other hospitals on the way to the Beatson. Sometimes I don’t make it in time for my appointment. I have to wait around until a room becomes available.”
But her real bug bear is the length of time she has to wait after her treatment.
She said: “After the treatment I just want to get home and have a lie down but sometimes I was still sitting there at six or 7pm waiting for transport, five or six hours later.”
After putting up with the poor service Anne complained to the SAS. The manager she spoke to was sympathetic and assured her a volunteer driver would be assigned to her appointments.
She said: “This is not about me, it’s about the people complaining who are too afraid to speak out in case they’re penalised.”
​Scottish Labour Health spokeswoman Jenny Marra said: “It is clear that our NHS needs more investment. That is why a Labour Government will deliver &pound;1billion of extra investment in our NHS, and take a whole person approach to health care.”
A Scottish Ambulance Service spokesman said: “Transfers to appointments in two different hospitals is extremely unusual.
“We will be contacting Mrs Camps to discuss her transport needs in more detail and reassure her that she will be taken to the Beatson and Stobhill next week and home thereafter if required.”

