 A LOVE cheat accused a married couple of rape – after her boyfriend found out she’d had  a threesome with them. 
Hannah McWhirter, 21, engaged in a late-night, hotel room romp with co-worker Dionne Clark and her husband Shaun.
She exchanged texts with the couple afterwards, telling them how much she enjoyed herself.
But she soon changed her tune when Shaun told the department store worker’s boyfriend about their three-in-a-bed night of passion and claimed she had been raped.
McWhirter appeared at court yesterday and admitted wasting police time with false rape claims.
Elaine Ward, prosecuting, said the accused had become close friends with Dionne, 29, after starting work in the same shop in January 2013.
Over time, Dionne introduced the young woman to Shaun, 35, and the three became close. Mrs Ward said: “The nature of their relationship became more intimate and they discussed having a threesome and booking a hotel for that purpose.”
On July 13, they enjoyed a steamy night at a Travelodge in Aberdeen while McWhirter’s boyfriend was on a night out.
Mrs Ward said: “The following day, the accused and Mrs Clark exchanged several text messages saying that they had both enjoyed the previous night.”
But the relationship started to deteriorate when McWhirter took a day to respond to a text from Dionne about being admitted to hospital.
And on October 11, things took another turn for the worst.
Mrs Ward said: “The accused’s boyfriend was standing outside her work when Mr Clark advised him of the threesome and showed him text messages from the accused.
 “This later resulted in the accused being confronted by her boyfriend. She initially denied the incident had taken place, then admitted it but said it was forced.” 
Their relationship ended but McWhirter, of Banff, continued to claim the Clarks had raped her.
She insisted she had been on a night out with friends before bumping into the Clarks.
Mrs Ward said: “She stated that at the end of the night she had to use the bathroom so went to their hotel room and then gave police details of a forcible rape.”
The Clarks were interviewed under caution by police on October 16.
However, McWhirter’s friends did not back up her night out story.
And after a futher mobile phone analysis took place, McWhirter admitted she had been a willing participant in the threesome.
Aberdeen sheriff Graham Buchanan deferred sentence for reports. McWhirter was released on bail and wept as she left the dock.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

