A POUND often won’t even buy you a cup of coffee in a Scottish caf&eacute; – so it’s hard to imagine surviving on that meagre amount each day.
But charity worker Caroline Dollman took part in a challenge to spend just &pound;1 a day on food and drink for five days to highlight the issue of global poverty.
 Caroline, 26, from Edinburgh, now lives in London and is campaigns manager for Live Below the Line. It’s part of Global Citizen – a movement to end extreme poverty and raise  awareness and funds for projects around the world. 
 For 1.2billion people in the poorest corners of the globe, there is no choice but to survive on &pound;1 a day.
 

 So, Live Below the Line are challenging people in Britain to keep to that budget on food and drink for five days to raise funds for international charities helping the world’s poorest people. 
Caroline said the challenge isn’t about trying to replicate what it’s like to live in extreme poverty but admitted her experience made her realise how tough life is for others.
 
She explained: “It became less about the food and more about what I was able to do.
“I couldn’t meet friends for a drink and when I wanted to work late, it meant either not eating or going home to make something with 40p to spend.
 “From a physical point of view, I was more tired and drained. It made me realise the choices I make when spending money and brought it to the attention of everyone around me. Although the extreme poverty line doesn’t exist in the UK, taking part in the challenge makes you realise there are people living under tough conditions here, too. 
 

“It was tough enough for me to spend just &pound;1 a day on food and drink.
“We’re trying to help people who only have that amount to live on for everything including housing, health and education, and without access to clean water and electricity. Some only have &pound;1 a day for a whole family. I was so relieved at the end of the five days I couldn’t wait to have a proper meal. I almost felt guilty about it.”
 

SO, &pound;1 a day, for five days... I’m feeling a bit daunted but, having done some research and swatted up on the Live Below the Line recipe packs, I’m all set for my five-day challenge.
Day one started out well with a bowl of porridge (though sadly with water, not milk) as I must stick to the &pound;1 budget for today.
I was travelling back from Edinburgh to London so packed some rice and veg for the journey, which felt a bit pathetic next to my sister and her fianc&eacute;, who had a spread of sandwiches, crisps and lovely drinks.
It was Easter Monday but I resisted the urge to have a drink with friends and instead went home to make scrambled eggs on toast.
On the whole, it didn’t feel that difficult but I was just sitting on trains.
I’m having a night in browsing the Live Below the Line website for recipe ideas to help me plan out my remaining four days.
 


Getting up for work after a bank holiday is hard at the best of times but without the motivation of coffee, it’s particularly challenging.
It’s watery porridge again for breakfast but at about 11am, I started to lag.
However, lunch gave me a good little boost – potato and chickpea curry, which is really filling and delicious. It’s potatoes, chickpeas, tinned tomatoes and some spices (I budgeted for 10p’s worth of spices from my cupboard).
But I have caffeine withdrawal headaches, making me realise how much I rely on coffee.
This challenge is already teaching me a lot about my own behaviour and choices.
I’ve realised how much of an “on the go” person I am.
Being able to pick something up at lunchtime, or grab something quick and easy on my way home is something I take for granted.
 

 

Leftover chickpea and potato curry went down a storm for lunch.
I was finding concentration hard this morning and I’m feeling a bit of a sugar low.
But I’ve been drinking plenty of water, which is helping me feel full.
I’ve had some donations from friends today which have really spurred me on.
This evening, I had frozen mix veg, eggs and rice. I threw it all into an omelette, which was really good.
I made extra rice and veg to pad out yesterday’s curry for tomorrow’s lunch.
It’s becoming less about the food and more about the restrictions it places on you.
You can’t make choices such as going to meet people and do things – you have to think it through and weigh up your remaining pennies.
 


Woke up feeling a bit groggy and forced down some porridge, yet again.
For lunch, I had leftover potato and chickpea curry with leftover rice.
After doing some browsing of the Live Below the Line Pinterest board, I’ve decided to give bean burgers a go.
I wish I’d budgeted for some cheap biscuits – the lack of sugar is starting to sink in.
I’ve definitely become more reactive rather than proactive at work. I have, however, been amazed by how interested my friends and family are in what I’m doing and it’s been a great way to start conversations about issues of extreme poverty.
My challenge is nothing compared to what it’s like to live on &pound;1 a day but, in a small way, it brings some of the challenges to life for people and highlights the lack of choice 1.2billion people face every day.
 


If you asked any of my colleagues, they would tell you today was my worst day – I was really grumpy and felt totally drained.
For lunch, I had some of my remaining egg-fried rice and veg. I’ve probably lost a bit of weight this week and have definitely noticed my productivity reduce every day.
 But, weirdly, I feel quite uneasy about stopping this tomorrow. I can go back to  my life whereas 1.2billion people don’t have that choice. 
The Live Below the Line experience is nothing compared to what it would be like to live in poverty – not just because the challenge is only for food and drink (think about housing, travel, health, education etc) but there’s an end to Live Below the Line.
There is no end for those living in extreme poverty – and that’s why I took part in this campaign.
Try our quick news quiz below:

