THE people of Glasgow tonight paid a poignant tribute to Karen Buckley.
Hundreds gathered in George Square to pay their respects to the Irish student just two hours after a man appeared in court charged with her murder.
Less than a mile away from the court a large crowd assembled in the heart of the city to remember Karen, 24 from Mallow, County Cork.
A lone piper played Amazing Grace during the event as dozens of floral tributes and lit candles were left at the foot of the Scott Monument.
A Cork man also sang a moving rendition of the county anthem, Banks of My Own Lovely Lee.
Karen's mum Marian, dad John and brothers all arrived after the vigil. There were emotional scenes as Marian was comforted by her family and locals.

Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) - where Miss Buckley was studying occupational health - was well represented, with many young people in attendance wearing GCU tracksuits and jumpers.
The vigil was organised by former Scottish Socialist politician Rosie Kane.
She said: &quot;I don't want to be here, that's the first thing I need to say.
&quot;It seems that everyone has been devastated but we want to support Karen's family and show them the best side of the city. We're trying to make something beautiful from that horrible, horrible grief.
&quot;There have been some songs from Scotland and Ireland and people have brought flowers and candles.
&quot;We also had a moment's silence to think about Karen's life, what we knew of her, about her family and to wish them the best.&quot;
The case has touched many people in Scotland and Ireland, with services held in Miss Buckley's home town of Cork earlier this week.
Barry Ahearn, who is originally from Cork but now lives in Scotland, travelled from his home in Ayr to pay his respects to Miss Buckley in George Square.
As organisers appealed for anyone who wanted to address the large crowd, Mr Ahearn sang a local Cork song.
He said: &quot;I've been living in Scotland for the last four years and wanted to come today to show solidarity and support for Karen's family.
&quot;I sang On The Banks On My Own Lovely Lee - it's the river that runs through Cork and is the local anthem.
&quot;The whole situation is so sad, particularly when you're living in Scotland and something like this happens to someone from your own country. It just doesn't fit, it's so sad.&quot;
His wife Maura said: &quot;It has really touched us this week, it's so sad and we all feel it very much.
&quot;There's a great number of people here tonight who I'm sure feel the same and we just want to rally round the Buckley family.&quot;
Flowers and messages have also been left at the GCU campus and at the entrance to High Craigton Farm, to the north of Glasgow, where the student's body was found.
Politicians took time out of campaigning earlier today to offer their condolences to the Buckley family.
Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: &quot;My thoughts are very much with the family and friends of Karen Buckley.&quot;
Jim Murphy began Labour's Scottish manifesto launch in Glasgow by saying: &quot;My thoughts and the thoughts of everyone in the room go out to Karen's family. None of us can in anyway imagine the pain and horror that they are going through.
&quot;Glasgow and Scotland stands with you.&quot;
 
