CONCERN is growing for the well-being of a young woman who hasn’t been seen since leaving a Glasgow nightclub in the early hours of Sunday morning.
Police have launched a major search for Karen Buckley, 24, who was last seen in the Sanctuary nightclub on Dumbarton Road at the weekend.
Karen was seen on CCTV leaving the venue just after 1am on Sunday morning. 
Secondary CCTV footage placed her at the nightclub’s bar around 15 minutes prior.
Karen’s friends have said it is “very unlike” her to not be in touch with any of them.
Originally from Cork, in Ireland, Karen recently moved to Glasgow to study for a master’s degree at Glasgow Caledonian University.
Her family, who are thought to have arrived in Scotland today, are also “very concerned”.
Inspector Gavin Smith of Police Scotland said: “Friends reported Karen missing on Sunday 12 April after feeling her behaviour to not return home was very out of character. 
“Her friends say she would always contact them by text or phone to let them know where she was and she doesn’t appear to have contacted anyone.
“We are interested in speaking to anyone who may have seen Karen in the early hours of Sunday morning in the west end of Glasgow in order to help with our inquiries to locate her. 
“We’re particularly keen to get in touch with the gentleman who Karen was seen talking to around 1am on Sunday morning outside the Sanctuary nightclub as he may be able to help us.
“Karen had been drinking alcohol with her friends but they say she was not drunk and are very worried about her. Her parents have also flown over from Ireland as they believe this behaviour is very unusual and not like Karen at all.
“I would urge anyone who may have seen Karen at all on Saturday night into Sunday morning to get in touch with police on 101 with any information at all.”
Karen is described as white, around 5ft to 5ft 3in with dark hair and brown eyes and had long black curly hair extensions in.
When last seen she was wearing an all in one black jump suit with red high heels and a black handbag. She speaks in an Irish accent.
She lives with three other student friends in a flat in Hill Street, Garnethill, Glasgow, and earlier on Saturday evening had drinks with friends in the flat before going to the nightclub.
Police are urging anyone with any information to contact 101.

