THE brother of missing Karen Buckley is hoping there is 'some crazy excuse' for his sister's disappearance.
Karen’s brother Kieran was in Australia when he heard his sister had gone missing. He is now on his way to Glasgow to be with his parents.
Speaking to an Irish radio station before leaving Sydney, he said: “It’s very tough on everyone.
“Hopefully some good news comes soon. You know, some crazy excuse for Karen’s disappearance and that she turns up safe and sound somewhere.
“It’s not in her character at all. It is very strange. It’s not like her to disappear.
“All we can do now is put our trust in the police in Glasgow.
 

“I’m with my brother in Sydney. It’s tough to get information with the time barrier.
“I found out on Monday morning when my brother told me she was missing. That was Sunday night in the UK
“We were hoping she would just turn up or something had happened like her phone went dead or she just lost her phone.”
Asked if he intended to join the search for his sister, Kieran said: “I haven’t a clue what is going to happen when I get back.
 

&quot;I’ll be as supportive as possible with whatever I can do. If there is a search or if I just need to be there for my parents, I’ll get involved straight away.
“It’s hard because my parents are busy with the police and different things to keep in contact with them.”
Karen, 24, from Cork in the Republic of Ireland, was last seen on CCTV in the early hours of Sunday morning, talking to a man outside the Sanctuary in Dumbarton Road, Glasgow.
She arrived at the club with friends at around 11.45pm on Saturday and at around 1am told them she was going to the toilet but failed to return and did not take her jacket.
She was then seen on CCTV outside talking to a man and then walking westwards along Dumbarton Road away from the city centre towards Church Street.
Friends of the Glasgow Caledonian University student raised the alarm on Sunday, saying it was &quot;very out of character&quot; for her not to return home.
