ANDY Murray has wed his long-term girlfriend Kim Sears in the tennis star's hometown.
The couple, both 27, said their vows in front of family and friends during a ceremony at Dunblane Cathedral led by the Rev Colin Renwick.
On a day of showers and hailstones, the rain held off as the couple exited the 300-seat cathedral to cheers from the large crowd gathered outside to wish them well.
The British tennis number one sported a blue and green kilt for the occasion while Sussex-born Sears wore an embroidered white gown with three-quarter-length sleeves and a long veil.
Among the guests were Murray's brother Jamie, divorced parents Judy and William, grandparents Shirley and Roy Erskine and former British tennis number one Tim Henman and his wife Lucy.
The ceremony will be followed by a reception at Cromlix House, Murray's luxury hotel near Dunblane.

Guests lined the path from the cathedral doors and bells rang as the couple left the church and were showered with confetti.
The bride was accompanied by four bridesmaids in long pink gowns.
The couple left the wedding venue for the reception at Cromlix in a grey car decked with ribbons and were cheered by crowds lining the streets.
The Perthshire town pulled out all the stops for what has been described as &quot;Scotland's royal wedding&quot;, with hundreds turning out for the event.
Among those who gathered outside was Brenda Watson, who travelled from Ochiltree in Ayrshire with a friend to join in the celebrations.
She said: &quot;We're so excited about seeing them and the atmosphere is great, it's been well worth coming.&quot;
Sheila Penman, 59, travelled from Rosyth in Fife with her husband John, 58, and six-year-old grandson Alfie.
She has tickets for Wimbledon for the first time this year, a treat for her 60th birthday.

She said: &quot;It's lovely to be here on such a happy occasion for Andy.
&quot;Hopefully I'll get to see him in the final this year and he'll win.&quot;
Earlier Murray tweeted a preview of the day in emojis which included pictures of a church, a ring, a kiss, cake and drinks as well as hearts, a face throwing a kiss and several Zzzz icons for sleep.
Commenting on the changeable weather his mother Judy tweeted: &quot;Hailstones. Marvellous,&quot; and then a few hours later: &quot;Snowing. White wedding.&quot;
Fans have posted their best wishes on social media and Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also offered her congratulations.
The couple met in 2005 through tennis circles - her father Nigel is a coach and former head of women's tennis at the Lawn Tennis Association.
They moved in together in 2008 and briefly split the following year before rekindling their relationship.
Murray told BBC Sport last month: &quot;I am actually not nervous about getting married because we've been together like nine-and-a-half years and we've lived together for six or seven years as well.
&quot;So, I don't think a whole lot's going to change. I kind of feel like we have been married already in terms of the way we spend our lives together and live together.
&quot;I think I will be more nervous about starting a family because that would be more life-changing, in a good way.&quot;

