FARAI Chirashi was alone and isolated in the weeks before she knifed her son to death and cut out his heart.
Friends have told the  how her husband drifted away from her – into the arms of a controversial church whose leader was once accused of staging an exorcism in a neighbour’s garden.
One pal said those who reject the Agape for All Nations Church – as Chirashi did – are shunned.
With her husband Tichakunda deeply involved in the church, Chirashi’s marriage fell apart. Her friends say she was left with no support network, hundreds of miles from those who loved her.
And the last text she sent her oldest pal weeks before the killing suggested a disturbing descent into extreme religion.
The High Court heard that Chirashi believed she was on a mission from God when she took five-year-old Scott’s life .
And she told childhood friend Esther Wilson in the text: “The Kingdom of God is near. Repent and return to God and give your life to Jesus.”
Esther told us: “Farai had no one to turn to. I think it was just too much for her.
“Something must have triggered that madness. What that was, I don’t know.
“We cannot know why.”
Chirashi and Esther’s families grew up next door to each other in Zimbabwe, where Chirashi was sent to a “posh school” because she was so academically gifted.
Esther’s sister Sarah said she was a “very quiet person”, adding: “You didn’t always know what she was thinking.”
After the friends moved to the UK, Chirashi and Esther spoke on the phone almost every weekend. But around September last year – three months before Scott was killed – the calls stopped.
Esther found herself unable to reach Chirashi. The text with its biblical message was the last contact she had from her.
Before she stopped talking, Chirashi told Esther Tichakunda’s church involvement was central to their marriage troubles.
“The way they were doing things at the church was one thing Farai wasn’t happy about,” Esther said.
“Her husband wanted the family to join but she wasn’t interested in it.
“Those people used to come to her house and hold Bible studies. She didn’t like that.
“I think this all contributed to it. In the end, she had nobody around her.”
Sarah said Chirashi told her she did not feel free or happy at the church and didn’t want to go. Chirashi added that Tichakunda was “into the church too much”.
“Because she was educated, she turned away from the church,” Sarah said. “She didn’t believe some of the things they were saying.”
Sarah’s husband Simon added: “AGAPE say they are a Christian church but they worshipped the church leader more than God.
“If someone questioned any of the church’s teachings, they would be cut off. They would ostracise you.
“There is this idea that you will have bad omens cast against you. People in this country don’t believe that, but for many Africans it is the truth.
“In this country, that bad omen or curse would be what we call depression.
“Maybe Farai felt isolated after that. Maybe this is the thing that led her depression episode.”
 

Neighbours of the church’s leader complained to the council in 2006 and alleged he had been performing religious ceremonies in his and nearby gardens.
One claimed he saw an exorcism taking place on his front lawn. The church leader denied it and the council took no action.
A church spokesman said yesterday that they held “laying on of hands” healing ceremonies, but rejected the use of the word “exorcism”.
Support worker Chirashi’s friends say she was devastated when her marriage failed. Esther claimed that, as is traditional in his culture, Tichakunda sent his father to Farai’s parents to ask for a divorce.
“For Farai, it came as a shock,” she said. “She was really depressed about it.”
Esther and Sarah, who live in the Manchester area, urged Chirashi to move nearer them so she would have support.
They say she agreed, but they heard nothing more, despite attempts to reach her by phone and on social media.
Then a journalist told them Scott was dead and his mother was in custody.
The scale of the tragedy is still hard for Esther and Sarah to understand.
Sarah said: “Farai was like a sister to me. She loved the kids. I never imagined she would ever reach this stage.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

