 
Preparations are well and truly underway for Andy Murray's wedding to Kim Sears.
And the tennis pro looked cool and calm as he was pictured arriving at Dunblane Cathedral today.
The sporting ace and his gorgeous bride-to-be will tie the knot in his hometown of Dunblane, Scotland tomorrow.
Andy showed no signs of last-minute nerves as he entered the cathedral dressed in a casual shirt, dark trousers and trainers.
 

The future Mrs Murray followed close behind dressed in a pair of black skinny jeans a white T-shirt and leather jacket.
Kim made sure she stood out in a pair of bright red ballet bumps and a colourful scarf.
Earlier today decorations were seen being brought into the town's cathedral as workers make sure everything is perfect for Andy and his fiancee.
 

The locals have certainly been getting in the spirit and showing their local hero support as he prepares for his and Kim's wedding.
From cheery messages in shop windows to handmade cards, it's a lovely tribute from residents of the small cathedral town.
 

One local admirer showed off a card from Andy's fianc&eacute;e, thanking them for the gift of a garter ahead of the big day.
The letter read: &quot;We are really excited for our big day in a month's time and are happy to be celebrating our wedding in Dunblane.
&quot;Thank you again for your thoughtfulness and generosity. Best wishes, Kim Sears x&quot;
 

Meanwhile, a local cafe is offering a range of tasty treats themed on the big day.
Fans of the tennis ace can celebrate with 'Andy's Wimbledon bangers', while his wife is honoured with her own dish, 'Kim's big day sausages'.
The menu will also recognise the couple together, with the adorably-named 'sweetheart burgers'
 

Sir Alex Ferguson, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer are among the A-list names that have been snubbed an invite to Andy's wedding to Kim Sears.
Murray is set to tie the knot with bride-to-be Sears at Dunblane Cathedral on Saturday, but the Scotsman has opted against a ceremony littered with big names.
Even his best friends and closest competitors on the court will not be at the event, with Djokovic, Federer and Rafael Nadal all uninvited.
Djokovic replied &quot;not invited&quot; when asked about his attendance at the ceremony on Sunday night. &quot;But I wish him all the best,&quot; he added.

