LITTLE Max Girvan was only six when he died but nearly five years on, his smile, laughter and courage are still an inspiration to his family.
Born with a congenital condition as well as a number of complications, Max was confined to a wheelchair, partially sighted and only able to communicate through sounds and facial expressions.
Doctors didn’t expect him to survive beyond a year but his determination to live – and smile – still motivates his family to help other children in similar situations.
Tomorrow, his older brother David O’Neill, 30, will kick off a 156-mile challenge at Hampden Park as he aims to do six 26-mile Kiltwalks across Scotland this summer to raise funds for charities close to his heart.
He said: “He is my inspiration. We called him our Little Braveheart.
“Watching him struggle was the hardest part for me – he fought every day just to live and breathe.
“Compared to what he went through, me walking 26 miles is nothing.
“He was always chuckling and brought us all so much joy.”
 

Last year, he took part in the 26-mile Glasgow Kiltwalk with an 11-strong Marching for Max team, which included his dad John and younger brother Jack, 14.
His mum Margaret and younger sisters Katie-Jane, 15, and Casey, eight, were at the finishing line cheering them on.
David added: “It was such a fantastic experience that I can’t wait to do all six this year.
“There was such a lovely atmosphere and the way all the walkers encouraged each other was amazing.
“I was exhausted by the end but I was also absolutely elated.
“Crossing the finishing line was one of the best feelings in my life, especially as there were so many people there cheering us on.”
This year, he is hoping to have a team of 20 or more take part in the Glasgow event tomorrow with nearly a dozen walking in Edinburgh next month and smaller groups in the walks in Aberdeen, Perth, Speyside and Dundee.
He said: “I can’t wait to take part in all six walks and I am determined to encourage as many people as possible to join me.
“Not only will they be supporting so many fantastic organisations which help children like Max, I know they will have a lot of fun.”
When Max was born in 2004, his family already knew what it was like to have a child with disabilities.
His older sister Katie-Jane was born with a condition which left her partially blind and with limited mobility.
However when Max was born with Pierre Robin Syndrome, as well as complications with his sight, stomach and respiratory system, the family were not prepared for the extent of care he would need.
David, from Bathgate, West Lothian, said: “When Katie-Jane was born it came as a huge shock to have a baby with a disability as we had no history of anything like that on either side of the family.
“But when Max came along we already had some experience and were a little less apprehensive.
“We thought his needs might be similar to those of Katie-Jane.
“But as beautiful as he was and as happy as we were to have him, it soon became clear that Max’s condition was far more serious and that it would have a huge knock-on effect for the rest of the family.
“He was a massive part of our family though and always will be.”
Max’s condition meant he regularly suffered seizures which would see him in hospital for weeks at a time.
John had to stop working to support his wife, who had already given up her job when Katie-Jane was born.
And for David, then 19, having a second disabled sibling meant a lot of adjustment.

The IT account manager with Cisco said: “Having a severely disabled child in the family can have a huge emotional effect on the family as it alters the dynamic and impacts on the other kids.
“Plus daily life can become all about logistics and about making arrangements.
“What I remember most was thinking about the fact my brother and sister wouldn’t lead normal lives.
“They wouldn’t be able to do the kind of things I had always taken for granted like go to school and choose what they want to do when they leave.
“When Max came along, I began to think about even smaller things that he would simply never be able to enjoy – like the fact he would never really know what the sun looks like.”
When he was well enough, Max was able to attend Beatlie School for children with special needs in West Lothian and have respite care.
But in 2010 he contracted septicaemia and died suddenly at home, with his family at his side.
 

 
David said: “There had been signs that he was deteriorating but it still happened really quickly.
“He was at home though and surrounded by his family and while I don’t think my parents will ever recover from losing a child, I think that through the grief it has brought us all comfort to know that he is no longer in pain or struggling.”
Throughout Max’s short life the family were hugely grateful for the help and support they had received from the NHS, Edinburgh’s Sick Kids Hospital, staff at Beatlie and at Sunndach respite care, in helping to make what little time they had memorable.
In the aftermath of Max’s death, David and the rest of the family realised they would like to do what they could to help the organisations who helped them during their time together.
Through his employers, he organised a team to help repaint rooms at Sunndach respite care centre. And thanks to donations made at Max’s funeral, together with a contribution from Cisco, a special room was created at Sunndach which is now called Max’s Den.
And as the team march tomorrow in the Kiltwalk, they will be raising even more money for the organisations who really made a difference to Max’s life.

The Glasgow Kiltwalk starts at Hampden going via Clydebank to finish at Balloch Castle Country Park on the shores of Loch Lomond.
Organisers this year promise a “surprise around every corner” and a festival feel at the finish with music and entertainment.
The charities which will benefit this year are Yorkhill Children’s Hospital, Cash for Kids, CHAS, SiMBA and the Sunday Mail Centenary Fund. Walkers can also nominate a kids’ charity or cause close to their own hearts.
The Edinburgh Kiltwalk is on May 3, Aberdeen on June 7, Perth on August 8, Speyside on August 30 and Dundee on September 20.
To sign up for any of this year's events, please visit www.thekiltwalk.co.uk
