THE streets of Glasgow turned tartan yesterday as thousands took part in the first Kiltwalk of the year.
And despite a massive downpour as they left Hampden Park for their 26 mile trek to Loch Lomond, the walkers all voted this year’s event a success.
An incredible 5200 people made the marathon journey through Glasgow and the west of Scotland, raising hundreds of thousands for children’s charities and good causes all over the country.
It was a colourful day out for families, power walkers and community groups who were taking part in support of worthy causes, and often in tribute to loved ones.
Among them was US professional golfer Beth Allen, who was walking in support of her Scottish partner’s cousin Adam Lindsay, a brave eight year old who has undergone several heart surgeries at Yorkhill.
She joined Team Adam to raise money for Yorkhill in his name, and said she was delighted to don her kilt for the big day.
Beth, from San Diego, California said: “It’s been a wonderful atmosphere and I enjoyed every moment. It was great seeing different parts of Glasgow and beyond.
“But most of all I am just so proud of Team Adam for raising over &pound;2000 for Yorkhill Hospital.”
The 2015 Kiltwalk was launched by DJ Cat Harvey and the tartan legion set off early.
 The course took them by the Clutha bar, where a piper’s lament paid tribute to the victims of  the helicopter tragedy in November 2013. 
Walkers then stopped at the SECC precinct – one of the many pit stops throughout the 26 mile route.

Despite the rain and cold, Cat Harvey, Drums and Roses and Diamond PT kept everyone warm and walkers were lead out in three groups by the St Francis Pipe Band.
The event was the fourth annual Kiltwalk from Glasgow to Balloch.
The previous three events have raised &pound;2.4million for children’s charities and good causes throughout Scotland.
Kiltwalk Chairman Michael Ure said: “All the hard work is worth it when you see our intrepid walkers kilted, booted and ready to take on a hard day’s walking for the sake of Scotland’s children.”
As well as the marathon distance Full Walk, a Half Walk started from the Clydebank Playdrom, and a Wee Walk of six miles took place around Balloch.
 

Angela Main, 40, from Lossiemouth, was taking part to raise money for Logan’s Fund, a charity set up to send her son, Logan, to the USA for treatment after he was diagnosed with Stage 4 Neuroblastoma in 2008.
Sadly, Logan died 10 months later in June 2009, aged just three and a half, and never made it to America, but his family and friends continued Logan’s Fund to help other children with cancer and their families.
Kiltwalk charity partners this year include Yorkhill Children’s Charity, A&amp;M Scotland, Calum’s Cabin, SiMBA, the  &amp; Sunday Mail Centenary Fund, CHAS and the STV Appeal, while walkers could also nominate a charity or cause close to their hearts.
There was also a tie in with the Drumchapel Food Bank, with walkers donating at drop off points.
There are five more Kiltwalk events in the summer, starting with Edinburgh on May 3, Aberdeen on June 7, Perth on August 8, Speyside on August 30 and Dundee on September 20.
  ●To sign up visit www.thekiltwalk.co.uk  
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

