WHAT took place outside the Faslane naval base yesterday was democracy in action.
We should be proud of it, no matter what your views are on nuclear weapons.
Some may believe the threat of mutually assured destruction acts as a guardian of democracy.
Others – including increasing numbers in Scotland – believe the existence of such weapons, and their threat, are an affront to democracy itself.
However, what’s beyond argument is that we still live in a country where both sides are able to voice their opinions. And where peaceful protest is not disrupted by baton charges, water cannon or worse.
The right to protest remains an important facet of true democracy. It is something generations have fought and died for.
Isabelle Smith is someone who has spent much of her eight decades on this planet battling for a better world, as she sees it.
She celebrated her 84th birthday on the picket line at Faslane, showing the zeal and determination that have seen her turn out on demonstrations that punctuate history.
Isabelle’s views were formed as a teenager, learning of the horrific death toll wrought by the atom bombs dropped on Japan.
She gave vent to a passion for peace during the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. And she stood firm against the carnage of war as the decade wore on, voicing opposition to the slaughter in Vietnam.
So it was entirely fitting she should be to the fore at the anti-nuclear blockade on the Clyde.
Isabelle, and countless others like her, make this a nation we should feel proud to live in.
 Stamp out hate 
FOR the polar opposite of Isabelle, look no further than whoever scrawled slogans of hate on a new Sikh temple.
The anti-Islamic graffiti illustrated nothing more than its authors’ ignorance and stupidity.
Wrong religion, you Neanderthals…
It was uplifting to hear Sikh leaders not just condemning the vandals but voicing their upset at any offence caused to the Muslim community.
Fine words from hard-working individuals whose efforts have created a spectacular new addition to the Glasgow skyline.
The Sikh Central Gurdwara is more than just a place of worship, it is a monument to multiculturalism.
It’s a building truly at home – and welcome – in a modern Scotland. Those who attacked it are not.
 Suppers soaring 
The price of fish remains a talking point – and little wonder.
Our suppers are set to soar in cost again, this time thanks to global warming.
Reckon that will put us off our favourite fried treat?
Aye, right – pass the salt and vinegar …
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

