A SCOTS soldier who stamped on a man 18 times as he lay defenceless on the ground is facing jail and being thrown out of the Army in disgrace.
Shaun Smith, 25, of the Scots Guards, was caught on CCTV bringing his boot down again and again on his victim’s head and upper body.
Smith and his comrade Jason Collins were seen close to their barracks “pummelling” two men last April, a court heard yesterday.
One victim was knocked unconscious and left lying in the road while the other suffered a horrific beating.
CCTV footage shows Smith, from Livingston, stamping on both men’s heads and repeatedly booting one victim while Welsh Guardsman Collins, 21, punches him on the ground.
The pair ran off and hid in a stream when police turned up at the scene near Catterick Garrison in North Yorkshire.
Both men – recruits at the time of the horror attack – denied causing grievous bodily harm with intent.
They were found not guilty after two trials at Teesside Crown Court but both admitted assault causing actual bodily harm. The Catterick-based pair will be sentenced after background reports have been prepared.
The soldiers claimed during their evidence that they were acting within the law to protect themselves.
They told the jury they were followed from a nightclub at 4am by the two men, who threatened to stab them.
But Paul Abrahams, prosecuting, said their violence was a “loss of control” and they were never at risk of harm.
How the incident started wasn’t picked up by the security cameras but the horrific violence that followed was caught on film and played to the jury during the trials.
After his arrest, Smith told police he had been drinking in Darlington, County Durham, with Collins before returning to the barracks. He said he had had gin and cranberry cocktails, tequila and more gin on his night out.
Smith initially claimed he had only kicked his victim, but under cross-examination admitted stamping.
Collins also claimed he thought he was using only necessary force at the time and denied he had “snapped”.
The soldiers gave their addresses as barracks in London where their respective regiments are based. They were granted bail until they are sentenced on April 24.
After the hearing, victim James Wormald, of Richmond, North Yorkshire, said: “There was no reason for the attack – it came out of the blue.
“My friend and I were leaving the club when the two of them walked past us and said something. They were looking for trouble.
“They started on us before we even had time to realise what was going on. I can remember little about it but I’ve seen the CCTV and I’m as shocked as anyone else.
“To stamp on someone that many times and get away with only being sentenced for actual bodily harm is wrong.
“They claimed we threatened them with a knife but that’s a lie. They were trying to justify the way they behaved.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

