CAMPAIGNERS have delivered a fresh blow to T in the Park bosses after claiming rare birds are now mating at the site.
A pair of ospreys sparked concerns for the festival earlier this week after being spotted just 80 years from the new venue at Strathallan Castle in Perthshire.
But Strathallan T Action Group have now claimed that an active nest is a major threat to Scotland's biggest music event, expected to attract 75,000 music fans from July 10.
The group has called for the festival to be cancelled or relocated, despite a star-studded line up including Noel Gallagher and Sam Smith already being confirmed.
A spokesman said the raptors were spotted mating at around 6am yesterday, two days after returning to the nest.
He told the Daily Mail: &quot;It is beyond debate the nest is in use, and the birds are thriving on it.&quot;
A former council planning chief, who did not want to be named, added: &quot;I have seen multi-million-pound projects put on hold or cancelled because there have been nesting birds of this sort.&quot;
The move to the Strathallan estate comes after 18 years at the festival's previous site at Balado.
Perth and Kinross Council is due to make a decision on planning permission for the event on May 13, meaning organiser DF Concerts has a matter of weeks to put contingency plans in place.
Get all the latest T in the Park news here
Geoff Ellis, chief executive of DF Concerts, pledged to work with the charity (RSPB) to ensure the birds and the festival &quot;can coexist&quot;.
He said: &quot;We are in daily contact with the RSPB and we will be working very closely with them. Whichever nest the birds take to we will work with them to agree an appropriate exclusion zone and manage it accordingly.
&quot;We guarantee to do that and we'd be bound by the law to do that anyway.
&quot;We will work with the RSPB and SNH as well so that the festival can continue at its new home at Strathallan Castle and the ospreys can coexist with the festival.
Asked if he would now have to &quot;throw away&quot; existing plans for the site, he replied: &quot;We used to have to do that at Balado almost every year with the changes in the HSE guidelines to the pipeline.
&quot;The one thing about a music festival is you build it up from scratch each year. It's just a case of re-plotting positions of things on site. It's extra work obviously but certainly it's not a show stopper in any form.&quot;
Just to get you in the mood, here's a gallery from last year's T:


Try today's showbiz quiz:

