FOR a month or more, I covered the Kosovo crisis with Gordon, plodding through the refugee camps of Macedonia and eating burgers in a rundown hotel while watching CNN on a loop.
We worked together, ate together, drank together, faced adversity together and bore witness to a dark chapter in world history.
But through it all, no matter how bleak things got, once the job was done Gordon could make us laugh until we could laugh no more.
I know my experience reflects that of the many journalists lucky enough to be a partner on Jacko’s team, in the world’s trouble spots and our own backyard.
Gordon, Jacko, the Jackal, was the man reporters wanted at their back, the photo-grapher who sweated blood for the shot no one else got.
Record journalist James Moncur said: “When you wanted a job done, you called a photographer. When you wanted a JOB done, you called the Jackal.”
Our former picture editor, Stuart Nicol, said Gordon was the best photographer he had ever worked with in Scotland.
He added: “The Scottish photographic landscape has lost one of its brightest stars. His outstanding work graced every newspaper, both sides of the border.”
Gordon’s talent was immense, his tenacity exceptional. But it is the magnitude of his personality, his generosity, kindness and that laugh rooted in his belly, that we will miss most of all.
 

 
All you had to do with an icy subject was let Jacko defrost them with his charm. Freelance journalist George Mair said: “There wasn’t a bigger smile in the business.”
Fellow photographer Paul Chappells said: “If I were in a trench in Belgium in 1916, I’d want to be next to the Jackal. He’d know the way out – or at least negotiate our free passage to Switzerland.”
Gordon and I once got lost in Greece as we looked for the plush new home of Yugoslav tyrant Slobodan Milosevic. When he rightly told me off for my abysmal navigation, I snapped that he was always telling me he was a bloody orienteering champion.
“You’ve been like this all holiday,” he chided, in the only cross words we had shared.
I collapsed into laughter. Covering a war was no holiday but it sometimes felt like one with Gordon. He had humanity, and irrepressible humour, in the bleakest situations.
When we found the Milosevic mansion, I chatted with the workmen while Gordon climbed the wall and grabbed his picture.
The potential wrath of a dictator’s henchmen was never going to faze him. Journalist Simon Houston says he had “the courage of a lion”.
Simon recalled: “On one particularly memorable trip, we were part of a four-man team sent to the north-west frontier of Pakistan – a breeding ground for the Taliban – in the immediate aftermath of 9/11.
“From the minute we touched down in Islamabad, the Jackal was determined to try to achieve the impossible and sneak across the border into Afghanistan.
 

 
“Our translators and fixers thought we were mad and steadfastly refused to take us into the lawless tribal areas towards the Khyber Pass.
“Gordon would have gone on his own if he’d known the way.”
On another assignment, in Kenyan capital Nairobi, Gordon got the most hellish food poisoning and looked so grey and pasty that I told him to go to his bed.
But he carried on working, in blistering heat in the biggest slum in Africa, playing with the kids and chasing the next picture.
While I knew I could never do Gordon’s job, I always had the sneaking suspicion he could do mine.
He was a true photojournalist, who had a nose for a story as much as an eye for a picture.
In Scotland, Gordon covered all our news events, the major, the minor, the dreich and the dreary. Nothing put him in a bad mood.
He often wanted his own picture taken when he was on assignment, so he could preserve the memories and the pleasure of doing a job he truly loved.
Kind words from First Minister Nicola Sturgeon were among the tributes to him, but the small, cherished memories of so many friends, colleagues and strangers paint the true picture of the man.
 

 
There’s the young student Gordon mentored through a photography degree, the junior football teams he photographed for free, the photographer he gave a lens to when his own equipment crashed.
And when our colleague, respected journalist Derek Blair, was seriously injured in an accident, Gordon was his best friend and rock, as always.
Gordon’s talk always came back to wife Gill and children Megan, 17, Sam, 14 and Emily,10. No matter how many years passed, he always spoke about Gill with the sparkle of a boy dancing with the prettiest girl at the prom.
I used to tease him that he was punching above his weight, but of course he wasn’t. They had each found their match, the love of their lives.
“I have lost my best friend,” is how Gill describes his passing.
Megan spoke for all the children when she said: “You are the best dad, husband, son and friend and everyone who knows you is so lucky.
“I love you to the moon and back daddy. Goodnight.”
When someone dies so suddenly, it reminds us to value life. But Gordon didn’t need reminding.
He lived every day with relish, with appreciation of a job he adored. And with gratitude – for the enduring love of his friends, his family and above all his dear Gill and the children.
On behalf of Scotland’s small newspaper family, I can say that the Press pack will be the duller without him.
 

A fund has been set-up to help Gordon’s family in the wake of his untimely death.
If you would like to donate, go to your paypal account, click on 'send money' and enter the following email address: mail@stuartnimmophoto.com

