ANDY Murray's wedding has been described as the nearest thing Scotland will have to a royal wedding - by the minister who will conduct the ceremony.
And Reverend Colin Renwick, minister of Dunblane Cathedral, expects Andy and his fiance Kim Sears to be as nervous and excited as any other couple getting married.
The minister, who has been tight-lipped in recent weeks, shared his thoughts on the grand occasion, adding that he was &quot;excited&quot; to be a major part of it.
Thousands are expected to turn up for the event and wish the couple well when they arrive for the 4.30pm ceremony in Dunblane.
Speaking outside the cathedral, Rev Renwick said that while the town had seen its share of royal visits, Murray's wedding was &quot;very special&quot; to him and the city.
He said: &quot;I'm nervous before every wedding, and indeed every service.
 

&quot;This is very special. Andy is one of Dunblane's own and there's genuine affection and pride in Andy, and there'll be a great affection for Kim too, I know.
&quot;I wasn't involved in the royalty ones so I can't really tell, but it's been described as the nearest we'll have in recent times to a royal wedding.
&quot;I would say that every wedding is equally special and that every couple is special, therefore it is a huge privilege for any minister or priest to conduct the wedding of any couple.
&quot;Yes, this is an exciting one for obvious reasons, but every wedding is special.&quot;

Reverend Renwick added: &quot;I think they'll be as nervous and as excited as any couple getting married in such a wonderful building.
&quot;We spend time with any couple preparing their wedding and this is no exception.
&quot;In many ways it's very much the same. Each wedding is unique, each wedding is very special and of course of huge significance to their family and their friends, and this is no different.&quot;
But Reverend Renwick would not give anything away about the choice of music or hymns, claiming it was &quot;classified information&quot;.
 

He said: &quot;All I can say is that the music will be fantastic. It's a fantastic building for music, fabulous organ, good choir, the music will be good, and it'll be exciting.&quot;
As a final touch in the preparations, Andy's gold postbox beside the cathedral, painted in honour of his 2012 Olympics final, was given a fresh coat of paint.
A workman said: &quot;It had some chips on the paintwork and so we've just given it a new dab around to spruce it up.
&quot;I hope he'll notice.&quot;


