A SCOTTISH expert has helped to bust an organised crime ring that smuggled more than a million pounds worth of ancient artefacts.
University of Glasgow academic Dr Christos Tsirogiannis discovered that more than &pound;1.2million of ancient treasures may have been stolen by gangsters in Europe.
Christie’s have been forced to pull eight rare antiquities from auction in the past six months after he found images of them in archives seized from Italian art dealers convicted of trafficking offences.
Some of the treasures were due to be sold at auction in London today. But they were removed after Tsirogiannis notified Italian authorities and Interpol.
Christie’s vowed to work with Scotland Yard to find where the lots came from.
Forensic archaeologist Tsirogiannis said: “Christie’s continue to include in sales antiquities depicted in confiscated archives of convicted art dealers.
“Sometimes they sell the lots but nearly every time they withdraw them. I don’t understand why they can’t do due diligence beforehand. Clearly, it’s not taking place.
“Christie’s say they don’t have access to these archives which is not true. Every auction house, dealer and museum should refer to Italian and Greek authorities, who would check for free before the sales.”
Tsirogiannis, a researcher at the uni’s Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, found the artefacts in the archives of shady Italian art dealers Giancomo Medici and Gianfranco Becchina. Both were jailed for trafficking antiquities.
 

The items axed from today’s sale date back to 540BC. They include an Attic black-figured amphora and are worth close to &pound;100,000.
A spokeswoman for Christie’s said: “We have withdrawn four lots from our upcoming antiquities sale as it was brought to our attention that there is a question mark over their provenance, namely, that they are similar to items recorded in the Medici and Becchina archives.
“We will now work with Scotland Yard’s art and antiques unit to discover whether or not there is a basis for concerns expressed over the provenance.”
She said Christie’s ran checks and would never sell any item they thought was stolen but that some databases were not available to auction houses.
She added: “We call on those with access to the Becchina and Medici archive to make them freely available to auction houses so we can check them as part of our pre-catalogue due diligence process.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

