 
THE fatal accident inquiry into the Glasgow bin lorry crash will look at driver's medical background and his fitness to hold a licence, it has been revealed.
A sheriff will also consider the technical aspects of the vehicle itself and whether it was appropriate for it to take the route it did through Glasgow city centre just before Christmas.
And a video of the route of the of the refuse lorry - shot from the same height as the cab in the aftermath of the carnage - will be shown to the inquiry.
A preliminary hearing for the fatal accident inquiry took place today at Glasgow Sheriff Court, where the probe is due to start on July 22, exactly seven months after the tragedy.
However, lawyers acting for some of the victims indicated the inquiry may well be delayed in order to give them more time to examine expert reports.
The out-of-control lorry driven by 58-year-old Harry Clarke ploughed into pedestrians on December 22 on Glasgow’s Queen Street, killing six, including three members of the same family.
It later emerged Clarke, who spoke of his anguish to the , was unconscious at the wheel. 
Erin McQuade, 18, her grandparents Jack Sweeney, 68, and his 69-year-old wife Lorraine, all from Dumbarton, died in the incident.
 

Stephenie Tait, 29, and Jacqueline Morton, 51, both from Glasgow, and Gillian Ewing, 52, from Edinburgh, were also killed when the truck mounted the pavement before crashing into the side of the Millennium Hotel.
Sheriff Principal Craig Scott, who will hear the FAI, said it will set out to &quot;establish the circumstances relating to the tragic deaths&quot; of the six victims.
Scotland's second most senior law officer Solicitor General Lesley Thomson QC, who will lead the inquiry, said it will cover three main areas.
She said: &quot;The issues fall into three categories which are firstly around the driver of the vehicle, his medical background, his fitness to hold the licence, his employment record and training.
&quot;Secondly the vehicle itself and the technical aspects, if there could have been any measures or interventions to have brought that vehicle to a controlled stop.
&quot;And thirdly the safety of the refuse collection route taken by the motor vehicle. In relation to that I would intend to explore not just the route but the time of week and the time of year and assess the appropriateness of that route at that time of year.&quot;
She added: &quot;The Crown's position is that I anticipate being ready to conduct the inquiry on the dates being given and that it can be concluded within the time allocated.&quot;
The Solicitor General said arrangements will be made for people involved in the FAI to view the vehicle before the inquiry starts, while during the FAI it will be brought to a suitable place close to the court.

She has also requested that a film of the route from the level of the driver be made.
Lawyers for the families, Glasgow City Council, DVLA and the driver were also at the hearing, as were some relatives of those who died.
Some of the lawyers said they could not indicate whether they will be ready by July 22 after the court heard some material and expert reports are not yet available from the Crown.
That could lead to a delay in the inquiry and Sheriff Principal Scott said: &quot;I have to stress it would be very unfortunate for the inquiry not to proceed on the appointed date.
&quot;The Crown have been expeditious in instigating the inquiry into the events of 22 December and the court has been equally expeditious in making considerable arrangements to accommodate the inquiry.
&quot;Were the inquiry to be put off it's difficult at this stage to envisage when it might be accommodated so really where possible the inquiry should proceed on 22 July.&quot;
A further preliminary hearing has been set for May 18.

