LEGENDARY pools winner Viv Nicholson who famously vowed to “spend, spend, spend” and blew the equivalent of &pound;3.5 million, has died aged 79.
Viv scooped &pound;152,000 with husband Keith in 1961.
She passed away peacefully in hospital on Saturday morning with sons Howard and Tim at her side.
Yesterday, Howard paid tribute to the woman who he said “defied convention” during her “amazing” life.
She had suffered from dementia for five years and over the past year was unable to recall why she won national fame or her iconic catchphrase.
Howard says: “Mum had a dignified death. It is what she deserved. Tim and I held her hand, kissed her, reassured her and told her we loved her. She slept and gradually her breathing stopped.”
Viv had been in a care home for the past five years but was taken to Pinderfields Hospital in Wakefield before Easter as her illness progressed.
Howard, 54, said: “We spent every day with her. Sometimes we’d sing her favourite Elvis songs tell jokes, talk about the good old days. Occasionally, she gave us her fabulous smile and we saw a twinkle in her eye.
 

 
“But dementia is a cruel disease and I hated to see how it robbed her of her vivacity. The family know she’s at peace but it’s hard to accept she’s gone.”
Howard, who lives in Leeds, added: “Mum was never going to be a blue rinse type matronly figure. Pink or green maybe but never blue. She was a rebel with a cause, a woman who defied convention all her amazing life which was like a movie.”
While it never became a film, her story was turned into both a BBC television play and a West End musical, aptly named in honour of her trademark phrase.
Viv was just 25 when she and her coal miner husband scooped the Littlewoods football pools
They were whisked from their rented council house in Castleford, West Yorkshire to London where TV star Bruce Forsyth handed them the cheque.
The sassy blonde liquorice factory worker recalled they were so poor she had holes in her shoes and put cardboard in them to stop her feet getting too wet.
They immediately went on a three-hour spending spree at Harrods and moved to a bungalow with a swimming pool near Leeds. The pool was never filled but Viv’s kids parked their bikes in it.
Money was splashed on designer clothes, cars, foreign travel, boozy parties and private education for her children.
 

 
But tragedy struck when Keith died aged 27 when his blue Jaguar skidded across the A1 in 1965. Viv was landed with a huge tax bill and was broke.
Afterwards, she struggled with alcohol and depression.
Viv appeared on the cover of The Smiths single, Heaven Knows I’m Miserable Now and as she struggled to make ends meet she took a job singing Big Spender in a club but was fired after refusing to strip off.
She married three more times. One husband was also killed in a car crash and another died from an overdose.
Try our quick news quiz below:

