
THE bunting is up in the Scottish town of Dunblane as it prepares to host the wedding of Andy Murray, its famous son.
The world number three tennis player will marry his girlfriend of nine years Kim Sears in a ceremony at Dunblane Cathedral tomorrow afternoon.
The couple live in Surrey but have chosen to exchange vows in the Perthshire community where the 2013 Wimbledon champion grew up.
Proud locals have spent the week decorating the high street and shop windows in preparation for the celebration which will be reported around the globe.
Traffic restrictions are in place as hundreds of people are expected to watch Murray and Sears arrive at the 12th-century cathedral, not far from the gold postbox marking Murray's 2012 Olympics win against Roger Federer.
A local butcher has produced special heart-shaped burgers for the occasion, one charity shop has mocked up Kim and Andy in wedding gear for its window display and another store has a message in a heart wishing the pair an &quot;ace day&quot;.
The ceremony is scheduled for late afternoon and is expected to be conducted by Reverend Colin Renwick.

As he prepares to don his kilt, 27-year-old Murray, said recently he will have three best men - his brother Jamie and friends Ross Hutchins and Carlos Mier.
Sussex-born Sears, also 27, will have four bridesmaids but the style and design of her bridal gown has so far remained a secret.
Several names from the world of tennis will undoubtedly attend, with former British number one Tim Henman among those likely to be on the guest list.
After the ceremony they will travel to nearby Cromlix House, the luxury hotel Murray bought two years ago, for the reception.
Murray and Sears met as teenagers in 2005 through tennis circles - her father Nigel is a coach and former head of women's tennis at the Lawn Tennis Association.
They moved in together in 2008 and briefly split the following year before rekindling their relationship.
 

Speculation about their engagement was fuelled by Murray who, responding to a fan's question on Twitter last year, joked that he would marry Kim after Wimbledon.
He was forced to point out that he was not serious but announced his engagement for real in November.
Murray told BBC Sport last month: &quot;I am actually not nervous about getting married because we've been together like nine-and-a-half years and we've lived together for six or seven years as well.
&quot;So, I don't think a whole lot's going to change. I kind of feel like we have been married already in terms of the way we spend our lives together and live together.
&quot;I think I will be more nervous about starting a family because that would be more life-changing, in a good way.&quot;

 Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz: 

