MOST OAPs would be too wary of their aching hips and stiff joints to dance all night.
But partying pensioner Pat Ingles doesn’t let her age get in the way.
The outgoing 69-year-old from Edinburgh is a saucy gran who isn’t afraid to dress up in sexy leather outfits and party until dawn.
The widow has a wardrobe full of raunchy costumes for her &shy;outrageous antics including nurse’s gear, a policewoman’s uniform and an army outfit.
She even has a pair of bright orange knickers that read &shy;“sh***ing crew” to go with a skimpy flight attendant get-up.
Pat said: “I like looking sexy and I feel as though for my age I’ve not got a bad body.
“I like the way I am and I like the way I look.
“I can walk into a room and I turn heads.”
 

Mischief-making Pat shows off her wild ways in OAPs Behaving Badly, a new series following the nation’s craziest pensioners.
 
She is a far cry from her elderly neighbours.
Unlike most retirees, the former hairdresser lifts weights in the gym, takes pole dancing lessons and drinks glasses of champagne with her 20-year-old granddaughter.
Pat said: “I would describe myself as being absolutely crazy. I never know what I’m going to do till I do it.
“I go into the gym, I talk to &shy;everybody, I kiss the boys and I just have good fun.”
Pat spent years taking care of her family members, including her husband, who died from prostate cancer.
 

Now together with her friend Julia Church – who is also a widow – she tears up the holiday &shy;destination of Menorca.
Pat isn’t one to sit on the &shy;sidelines when she goes out and loves to dance on table-tops and flirt with young men. But there is a particular man who has caught her eye.
After 12 years of being a widow, love is brewing with 66-year-old Colin – who shares a similar love of partying.
 
She said: “Colin and I have a fantastic time together.
“We have nice sex and we enjoy each other’s company.
“I have just realized how much I missed it before, missed having somebody to cuddle me, to sleep with me, to care for me and protect me and treat me like a lady.”
 

 
 
Try our quick news quiz below:

