A YOUNG nursing student has vanished after being seen with a mystery man outside a club.
 Karen Buckley, 24, was caught on CCTV chatting to the man in the early hours of Sunday . 
She then failed to return to her flat in Glasgow’s west end or contact her worried friends.
Yesterday, her family flew over from Ireland to meet detectives.
They said her disappearance was “very unusual” and her brothers made emotional appeals online.
The mystery took a new twist last night as pals revealed a mobile app showed she had been active on a messaging service more than 10 hours after she was last seen.
And there was further confusion when police refused to release images of the man caught on camera with Karen – despite asking for the public’s help in tracing him.
They refused to elaborate on the decision not to publish the CCTV footage.
Karen, from Cork, is studying occupational therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University.
She had been drinking with friends at their flat in Garnethill before heading to the Sanctuary club in Partick at 11.45pm on Saturday.
They had been in the club for just over an hour when Karen said she was going to the toilet – and never returned.
She did not collect her jacket from the club.
Inspector Gavin Smith said: “Friends reported Karen missing on Sunday after feeling her behaviour to not return home was very out of character.
“We are interested in speaking to anyone who may have seen Karen in the early hours of Sunday in the west end.
“We’re particularly keen to get in touch with the man Karen was seen talking to around 1am on Sunday outside the Sanctuary as he may be able to help us.”
 

The man was white with short, dark hair and was wearing a white shirt and dark trousers.
 Yesterday, police were carrying out a major search in the west end, involving the force  helicopter. Officers were trawling CCTV and patrolling the area. 
Smith added: “Karen had been drinking with her friends but they say she was not drunk and are very worried about her.
“Her parents have also flown over from Ireland as they believe this behaviour is not like Karen at all.”
Karen is 5ft 3in with dark hair and brown eyes. She was wearing long, black, curly hair extensions and a black jumpsuit with red high heels and a black handbag when she vanished.
Friends have launched a major appeal on Facebook and Twitter, posting photos taken hours before Karen vanished.
A tweeted screen grab from a friend showed Karen’s account on Viber, which allows users to send free messages, had been active at 11.32am on Sunday.
And her brother Kieran, 28, who lives in Sydney, Australia, asked friends online to share his appeal with people they know living in Glasgow.
He wrote on Facebook: “Hope someone recognises her and has information.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

