
 announcing. . . announcing. . . announcing. . .announcing. . .
 
                              celebrate liberty!
                  1993 libertarian party national convention
                              and political expo
 
                    the marriott hotel and the salt palace
                             salt lake city, utah
 
                    includes information on delegate deals!
                           (back by popular demand!)
 
 the convention will be held at the salt palace convention center and the
 marriott hotel, salt lake city, utah.  the business sessions, karl hess
 institute, and political expo are at the salt palace; breakfasts, parties, and
 banquet are at the marriott hotel.
 
 marriott hotel room rates are $79.00 night, plus 10.5% tax ($87.17 total). 
 this rate is good for one to four persons room occupancy.  double is one
 or two beds; 3 or 4 people is 2 beds.  you can make your reservations
 direct with the hotel (801-531-0800), or you can purchase your room
 through one of mgp's payment plans.  mgp will provide assistance in
 matching roommates if requested.
 
 
 august 30, 31, sept. 1:           everything you always wanted to
                                   know about winning elections, but
                                   didn't know where to ask!
 
 three days of intensive campaign training conducted by sal guzzetta, a
 25 year veteran of more than 200 campaigns.  students receive 990 pages
 of professional campaign manuals.  everything from strategy and
 targeting to opposition research, fundraising, and field operations.
 
 price:           $150 if purchased by may 1, 1993
                  $175 thereafter
 
 august 31 and sept. 1:            platform, bylaws, credentials and
                                   national committee meetings.
 
 shoot out in salt lake!  pledge versus committee for a libertarian
 majority.  will the party's membership and platform definitions change? 
 is compromise possible?  the platform and bylaws committees are
 responsible for making recommendations to the convention concerning
 changes in those documents.  at this convention, the party will only
 consider deletions to the platform.  the convention rules would have to
 be amended by a 2/3 vote to change this rule.
 
 the meetings are open to the public.  there is no charge for attending. 
 
 
 sept. 2-5, 1993: celebrate liberty! begins
                  political expo opens
 
 sept. 2, 1993:   9 am -- credentials committee report to the delegates.
 
                  10:30 -- gala opening ceremony and keynote address
                  by russell means.  
 
                  1:00 -- after lunch break, convention business continues
                  (see "standing order of business" from the "convention
                  rules of the libertarian party" at the end of this
                  document.
 
                  karl hess institute of libertarian politics begins, runs in
                  tandem with the business sessions.
 
 sept. 3, 1993:   dawns early light, green dragon inn (morning and
                  evening), with karl hess institute and convention
                  business in between.
 
 sept. 4, 1993:   dawns early light, freedom rock '93, karl hess
                  institute, convention business.
 
 sept. 5, 1993:   dawns early light, convention banquet, karl hess
                  institute, convention business, joyful noise.
 
 
 
                       activity descriptions:
 
 dawns early 
 light            three great convention breakfasts to start your days
                  right, featuring science fiction author l. neil smith,
                  psychiatrist and author dr. thomas szasz, and south
                  african libertarian leader frances kendall.
 
 green dragon 
 inn              "opening night" party, named after the famous inn
                  where sam adams and his crowd plotted trouble for the
                  british over pints of ale and beer.  music, food, drink,
                  and comedy.
 
 freedom 
 rock '93         free downtown rock concert friday night, with drum
                  circle, comic tim slagle, middle eastern dancer, reggae,
                  and local classic rock-n-roll bands.  will be widely
                  publicized in the local area.  major outreach opportunity.
 
 banquet          vivaldi and mozart, fine dining, in the elegant marriott
                  grand ballroom (black tie optional).  dancing follows.
 
 political 
 expo             exhibits and vendors.  free admission.  event will be
                  widely publicized in local area for maximum draw. 
                  major outreach opportunity.
 
 
 
                 karl hess institute of libertarian  politics
 
          workshops, speakers, roundtable discussions in these areas:
 
 liberty:  next
 generation               high school and college age libertarians talk
                          about what matters to them and the 20-
                          something generation.
 
 agenda 2000              considers key issues of the 1990s.  environment. 
                          health care.  21st century economics.  drug
                          war.  second amendment.  social services. 
                          foreign policy.  crime & violence.  aids.
 
 the great debate         lp strategy and tactics.  media.  ballot access. 
                          initiatives.  feminist issues.  presidential
                          campaigns.  lp elected officials.  grassroots. 
                          early look at the 1996 presidential nomination.
 
 values for 
 the 90s                  community.  children.  abundance.  home
                          schooling.  religion and liberty.  race.
 
 campus focus             organizing.  academia.  blue collar youth.
 
 
 
                  convention package descriptions and prices
 
 total event:             all activities, aug. 30-sept. 5, $400, including 3
                          day candidate training
 
 full celebration:        all convention activities, sept. 2-5, $300
 
 late riser               no breakfasts, everything else sept. 2-5, $250
 
 thrift                   no breakfasts or banquet, $150
 
 issues focus             karl hess institute, $125
 
 basic                    convention packet, souvenirs, two karl hess
                          institute speakers
 
 free                     political expo, access to convention hall,
                          keynote address, joyful noise, freedom rock
                          '93, three free outreach speakers.
 
 please note:
 --       prices increase may 1, 1993
 --       special student prices are available to anyone under 25 years of
          age or who is enrolled in a college or university.
 
 --       six and seven month payment plans are available which can
          include housing (if requested).
 
 --       to add the three day candidate training to any package below
          (except "total event"), add $150 to the price.
 
 --       all prices are in u.s. dollars.
 
 --       advertising is available in the convention program; exhibits and
          sponsorships are available for the political expo.  free political
          expo admission and mgp promotions will draw visitors from the
          surrounding community (one million people live within a 30
          minute drive of the expo).
 
 --       if your special interest group, organization, committee, or cause
          would like to schedule space for a presentation, contact us.
 
 --       mgp conducts a drawing each month and gives away free
          hotel nights.  the sooner you register, the more chances you have
          to win.
 
 --       roommate match service available upon request.
 
 
 other events:
 "anti-federalist two"    mgp sponsored writing contest.  june
                          submission deadline.  contact mgp for
                          prospectus.
 
 "the libertarian 
 games"                   friendly competition -- marksmanship, computer
                          programming, chess, maybe more.
 
 libertarians for gay &
 lesbian concerns         business meeting, social night, sponsored by
                          lglc.
 
 ???                      your event can be listed here.  contact
                          mgp for details.
 
 
 
                          attention college students!
 
 special discounts are available for college and high school students.  we
 will work on casual housing opportunities for the "poverty caucus". 
 college libertarians will meet at celebrate liberty! and discuss the future
 of their movement on campuses.  contact mgp for more details.
 
 
 
 			   list of speakers
 		       (as of march 14, 1993):
 
 dean ahmad		jim hudler		sheldon richman
 karen allard		jeff hummel		kathleen richman
 rick arnold		alexander joseph	dan rosenthal
 dr. george ayittey	frances kendall		dr. mary ruwart
 alan boch		martin luther king	dagny sharon
 richard boddie		me-me king		jane shaw
 gus dizerega		henry lamb		sandy shaw
 larry dodge		amy lassen		l. neil smith
 dr. richard ebeling	scott lieberman		eric sterling
 don ernsberger		dr. nancy lord		dr. richard stroup
 bill evers		russell means		dr. thomas szasz
 bonnie flickenger	vince miller		michael tanner
 john fund		maury modine		sojourner truth
 doris gordon		david nolan		yuri tuvim
 leon hadar		randall o'toole		bob waldrop
 patrick henry		james ostrowski		terree wasley
 karl hess		dirk pearson		perry willis
 dr. karl hess jr.	bob poole		richard winger
 jacob honrberger	carole ann rand		jarret wollstein
 						brigham young
 
 
 
 		  upcoming convention developments!
 
 on may 1st, prices increase for convention packages, candidate training,
 and exhibits/advertising:
 
 new prices for convention packages will be:
 
 total event:             $450
 full celebration:        $350
 late riser:              $275
 thrift:                  $175
 issues focus:            $150
 basic:                   $30
 free:                    $0
 
 these prices good through july 2, 1993.
 
 
                           back by popular demand!  
                        announcing the delegate deals!
                             available may 1, 1993
 
 i:       business focus:  all convention activities except karl hess
          institute -- $275
 
 ii:      delegate celebration, includes a complete set of karl hess
          institute audio tapes instead of institute tickets -- $350
 
 
 
                        standing order of business for
                        a libertarian party convention
  
      1. call to order
  
      2. credentials committee report
  
      3. adoption of agenda
  
      4. treasurer's report
  
      5. bylaws and rules committee report (non-nominating conventions
         only)
  
      6. platform committee report (at non-presidential nominating
         conventions only deletions may be considered.)
  
      7. nomination of party candidates for president and
         vice-president (in appropriate years)
  
      8. election of party officers and at-large members
         of the national committee
  
      9. election of judicial committee
  
      10. resolutions
  
      11. other business
 
 
 
                          for questions or comments,
 
                              grumbles or grins,
 
                           suggestions or criticism,
 
                                      and
 
                                 to register,
 
                                   contact:
 
                        morning glory productions, inc.
                                p.o. box 526175
                           salt lake city, ut  84152
                                 801.582.3318
                 e-mail: bob.waldrop@f418.n104.z1.fidonet.org
 
            make checks payable to morning glory productions, inc.
 -- 
 		      don't blame me; i voted libertarian.
 disclaimer: i speak for myself, except as noted; copyright 1993 rich thomson
 uucp: ...!uunet!dsd.es.com!rthomson			rich thomson
 internet: rthomson@dsd.es.com	irc: _rich_		pext programmer
 