
 
 
   government-mandated energy conservation is unnecessary and wastful, study finds
 
   washington, dc -- the energy tax and subsidized energy-efficiency
   measures supported by president clinton and energy secretary hazel
   o'leary are based on faulty assumptions, a new study from the cato
   institute points out.
 
     according to jerry taylor, cato's director of natural resource studies,
   we are not running out of sources of energy. the world now has almost 10
   times the proven oil reserves it had in 1950 and twice the reserves of
   1970. proven reserves of coal and natural gas have increased just as
   dramatically.
 
     when standards of living, population densities, and industrial
   structures are controlled for, the united states is no less energy
   efficient than japan and more energy efficient than many of the group
   of seven nations.
 
     energy independence provides little protection against domestic oil
   price shocks because the energy economy is global. moreover, since the
   cost of oil represents only about 2 percent of gross national product,
   even large increases in the price of oil would have little impact on the
   overall u.s. economy.
 
     market economies are, on average, 2.75 times more energy efficient per
   $1,000 of gnp than are centrally planned economies.
 
     utilities' subsidized energy-efficiency measurs, known as demand-side
   management programs, encourage free riders, overuse of competing resource
   inputs, an competitive inequities. furthermore, dsm programs do not
   reduce demand.
 
     taylor concludes that government-mandated energy conservation imposes
   unnecessary costs on consumers and wastes, not conserves, energy; that
   subsidizing energy-conservation technologies will stymie, not advance,
   gains in energy conservation; and that central control over the lifeblood
   of modern society--energy--would transfer tremendous power to the state
   at the expense of the individual.
 
     "energy conservation and efficiency: the case against coercion" is no.
   189 in the policy analysis series published by the cato institute, an
   independent public policy research organization in washington, dc.
 
 
 
 available from:
   cato institute
   224 second street se
   washington, dc  20003
 
 
 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
                         the cato institute
 
     founded in 1977, the cato institute is a public policy research
   foundation dedicated to broadening the parameters of policy debate
   to allow consideration of more options that are consistent with the
   traditional american principles of limited government, individual
   liberty, and peace.  to that end, the institute strives to achieve
   greater involvement of the intelligent, concerned lay public in 
   questions of policy and the proper role of government.
     the institute is named for cato's letters, libertarian pamphlets
   that were widely read in the american colonies in the early 18th
   century and played a major role in laying the philosophical foundation
   of the american revolution.
     despite the achievement of the nation's founders, today virtually
   no aspect of life is free from government encroachment.  a pervasive
   intolerance for individual rights is shown by government's arbitrary
   intrusions into private economic transactions and its disregard for
   civil liberties.
     to counter that trend the cato institute undertakes an extensive
   publications program that addresses the complete spectrum of policy
   issues.  books, monographs, and shorter studies are commissioned
   to examine the federal budget, social security, regulation, military
   spending, international trade, and myriad other issues.  major policy
   conferences are held throughout the year, from which papers are
   published thrice yearly in the cato journal.
     in order to maintain its independence, the cato institute accepts
   no government funding.  contributions are received from foundations,
   corporations, and individuals, and other revenue is generated from
   the sale of publications.  the institute is a nonprofit, tax-exempt,
   educational foundation under section 501(c)3 of the internal revenue
   code.
 
   the cato institute
   224 second street s.e.
   washington, dc  20003
 