
 
 
 secret purpose of falklands war;  [with in-visibility technology]
 
 dr. beter audio letter #74 of 80
 
 digitized by jon volkoff, mail address eidetics@cerf.net
 
 "audio letter(r)" is a registered trademark of audio books,
 inc., a texas corporation, which originally produced this tape
 recording.  reproduced under open license granted by audio
 books, inc.
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 this is the dr. beter audio letter(r), 1629 k st. nw, washington,
 dc  20006.
 
    hello, my friends, this is dr. beter.  today is april 30,
 1982, and this is my audio letter(r) no. 74.
 
   it's now been almost one month since war broke out in the south
 atlantic.  on the surface it seems that it's only a dispute
 between argentina and great britain over the barren, wind-swept
 falkland islands and south georgia island.  in reality, it's far
 more than that.
 
    the so-called falklands crisis is just the visible tip of a
 giant military operation.  during this month of april 1982,
 fierce naval battles have taken place--not only in the south
 atlantic but also in the south pacific.  up to now most of the
 hostilities have been kept under wraps by wartime censorship on
 all sides.  but as i say these words, the naval war in the
 southern hemisphere is about to come to the surface.
 
    beginning today, april 30, a total naval and air blockade of
 the falklands by the royal navy has begun.  at the same time a
 counterblockade has been declared by argentina in the same area.
 
    to be effective, a blockade must be imposed over a period of
 time, but the royal navy does not have that much time.  winter is
 coming on in the south atlantic, and the british supply lines are
 overextended.  having come this far, her majesty's navy cannot
 simply drop the blockade and sail away in a few weeks time
 without drawing blood from argentina.  as a result the british
 will be forced to undertake military operations very soon no
 matter how risky they may be.
 
    there is also another reason why the royal navy now has no
 choice but to engage the argentine forces in combat.  that
 reason, my friends, is that the royal navy has already suffered
 losses in secret combat this month.  up to this moment there will
 be no way to explain away the damage which has been sustained by
 the british fleet.  only when publicly admitted fighting erupts
 will the british dare to admit that they have suffered battle
 losses.  to obtain that cover story, the british have no choice
 but to sail into combat; but in doing so, they will be risking
 even heavier losses on top of those already sustained.  in short,
 my friends, her majesty's navy has sailed into a trap.
 
    the events now unfolding in the south atlantic carry strange,
 ironic echoes of the past.  for weeks now we've been hearing
 countless commentators referring to the british task force as an
 "armada" (quote).  the british of all people ought to be very
 uneasy with that description.  the original spanish armada 400
 years ago was renowned as a seemingly invincible fighting force,
 but it came to grief in a naval disaster so complete that it
 changed the course of history--and it was none other than the
 english navy that destroyed the spanish armada.
 
    the original spanish armada put to sea in 1588 during the
 reign of england's queen elizabeth i.  the armada was an invasion
 fleet carrying thousands of crack fighting men to invade england. 
 they were met by the daring sea dogs of sir francis drake.  drake
 and his small, fast ships turned the tables on the spanish armada
 by changing the rules of battle.  the english fleet was equipped
 with new longer-range guns, and it stayed upwind and out of
 reach.  from there the english pounded, smashed, and shattered
 the big ships of the mighty armada.  when it was all over, barely
 half the spanish fleet was left to limp back to port.  drake's
 defeat of the spanish armada was a shock to the world.  it opened
 the door for england under queen elizabeth i to start its
 expansion into a truly global empire.
 
    today, 400 years later, history seems to have come full
 circle.  queen elizabeth ii is witnessing the dismantling of the
 world empire whose heyday began under queen elizabeth i, and now
 the cultures of england and of spain are once again in
 confrontation.  once again a so-called armada is preparing for
 invasion, but this time the armada is british, not spanish.  four
 hundred years ago sir francis drake was the hero of the day;
 today, the ghost of francis drake is once again on the scene.
 
    the south atlantic war zone is at the eastern end of the drake
 passage around the southern tip of south america.  the defeat of
 the spanish armada four centuries ago broke the back of spain's
 naval supremacy, and now the defeat of the new british armada may
 well break the back of what remains of the once glorious royal
 navy.
 
    my three special topics for this audio letter are:
 
 topic #1--the military secret of south georgia island
 topic #2--the secret naval war of the southern hemisphere
 topic #3--the rockefeller fear campaign against nuclear war.
 
 topic #1--when the falkland islands crisis began early this month
 it looked at first like a tempest in a teapot.  for a century and
 a half since 1833, the islands have been controlled by great
 britain.  during that entire time, british sovereignty over the
 falklands has been disputed by argentina.  there have been
 countless threats by argentina to seize the islands, which it
 calls the malvinas, but the threats have always come to nothing
 in the past and britain has never even gotten very worried about
 them.
 
    the islands are four times as distant from argentina as cuba
 is from the united states, and they are not much of a prize. 
 after 150 years of occupancy, the falklands are home to fewer
 than 2,000 british settlers and a lot of sheep.  in short, the
 remote falkland islands hardly look like something to fight over,
 and yet here we are watching another crisis take place.  we are
 watching as war erupts between great britain and argentina.
 
    the thatcher government is acting as if it has forgotten all
 about its usual preoccupation with the soviet threat at nato's
 doorstep.  instead, britain is throwing almost everything it's
 got at argentina---aircraft carriers, cruisers, destroyers,
 submarines, assault ships--you name it.  luxury cruise ships have
 even been commissioned and turned into troop carriers overnight. 
 wave after wave of additional assault troops have been activated
 and sent to join the fleet even after it sailed.  ships and
 submarines have been pulled off station from normal nato duty and
 sent to reinforce the task force.  the initial 40-ship force has
 grown steadily over the past several weeks into an armada
 numbering over 70.  over two-thirds of the entire royal navy has
 already been deployed to the south atlantic off argentina.
 
    watching all this, a lot of people are asking: what's this
 fight really all about?  the most popular answer suggested in the
 major media is "oil."  vast deposits of oil are known to exist
 under the continental shelf between argentina and the falklands,
 but that has been known for nearly 10 years.  in no way does it
 explain the timing of the sudden military offensive by argentina
 this month, and oil explains even less about the argentine
 seizure of south georgia island.
 
    south georgia island is 800 miles east of the falklands with
 no known oil deposits anywhere near it; and compared to south
 georgia, the falklands are an island paradise.  south georgia
 island is covered with rugged mountains, treacherous valleys,
 glaciers, and semi-permanent snow.  most of it is uninhabitable. 
 on top of all that, argentina has absolutely no legal or
 historical claim to south georgia island.  in that respect it
 stands in sharp contrast to the falklands.
 
    in the early 1830s the falklands were occupied for a while by
 argentine colonists.  in 1833 the british expelled them and took
 over the island.  for that and other historical reasons,
 argentina argues that the falklands really belong to argentina,
 not britain.
 
    but no such argument is possible for south georgia island.  it
 has always been controlled by britain, never by argentina or
 spain.  the argentine seizure of south georgia island looks even
 more unreasonable from a military point of view.  argentina's
 leaders are military men and they think in military terms.  they
 were well aware ahead of time that far-off south georgia island
 could not possibly be held for long.  by seizing it they were
 setting themselves up to absorb a military defeat, as the island
 was retaken by britain.  so the question is: why did argentina's
 military junta bother with the seemingly worthless south georgia
 island at all?
 
    my friends, the answers to all these questions are military,
 not political or economic.  south georgia island possesses an
 enormous military secret.  it's a giant underground installation
 buried under the mountains at the northwest end of the island. 
 the real reason for the so-called falkland crisis is this secret
 installation, together with two other similar installations which
 i will describe shortly.
 
    the secret military complexes have been in existence for many
 years; they are not new.  what is new is the accelerated nuclear
 war timetable of the american bolshevik war planners here in
 washington.  for the past two months i've been reporting the
 details of this new war plan to you as quickly as i can obtain
 and verify them.
 
    the plan calls for nuclear war one to erupt by september of
 this year 1982!!  it is this fast-approaching nuclear war threat
 that caused the so-called falklands crisis to erupt now.
 
    what is going on now is a coordinated effort to spoil part of
 the bolshevik grand strategy for the coming nuclear war.  the
 mutual enemies of the american bolsheviks here--namely, the
 rockefeller cartel--and russia's new rulers in the kremlin are
 behind the present crisis.  they are trying to ruin phase #3 of
 the "project z" war plan which i revealed last month.  that phase
 is to be world domination by the american bolsheviks after both
 russia and the united states have been destroyed in nuclear war
 one.  as i mentioned last month, the key to this plan is the
 existence of secret weapons stockpiles in various places around
 the world.
 
    the american bolshevik military planners here in america are
 working with other bolshevik agents in key military positions of
 other countries to set off war.  having done that, they intend to
 ride out the nuclear holocaust they have caused, safe and cozy in
 government war bunkers!  when the warring nations finally lie
 smoldering and exhausted, the bolsheviks will leave the shattered
 remains of their host countries.  they will rendezvous at the
 secret weapons installations and bring their weapons into the
 open.  they will confront the world with the only remaining
 fresh, up-to-date, powerful military force on earth; and using
 that military power, they will become the undisputed rulers of
 the world--that is, they plan to do all this, and they plan to
 pave the way for world domination very soon by setting off
 nuclear war one in a matter of months.  the rockefeller cartel
 and russia's new anti-bolshevik rulers are working together in a
 race against time to try to head off the bolshevik war plan.
 
    last month i mentioned that the bolsheviks here are
 benefitting from war preparations which were started by the
 rockefellers long ago.  it has only been about three years since
 the rockefellers were dislodged as the prime movers of the united
 states government by the bolsheviks.  since that time the united
 states government has been a house divided, torn by internal
 power struggles between rival bolshevik and rockefeller factions. 
 but before that, the united states had been dominated for decades
 both economically and politically by the four rockefeller
 brothers.
 
    in 1961 the brothers launched a new long-range plan for world
 domination.  it was a two-prong strategy, half visible and half
 secret, which i first described long ago in audio letter no. 28. 
 it was a plan for the united states to arm to the teeth in secret
 while appearing to disarm gradually.  without repeating all the
 details, the basic idea was grandiose yet simple.  by
 deliberately appearing weak, the rockefeller-controlled united
 states would maneuver itself into a nuclear war with russia. 
 then the secret weapons, including superweapons, would be
 unleashed to smash russia and take over the world.
 
    when they set the grand plan in motion in 1961, the
 rockefeller brothers were looking ahead to a nuclear war by the
 late 1970s.  their military analysts concluded very early that
 the war being planned would have very different effects on the
 northern and southern hemispheres.  both superpowers, the united
 states and the soviet union, are located well up in the northern
 hemisphere; so are the other full-fledged nuclear powers--great
 britain, france, red china, and india.  by contrast, the
 strategic targets for nuclear war in the southern hemisphere are
 relatively few and far between.  in other words, it was expected
 that the coming nuclear war would be essentially a northern
 hemisphere war.
 
    in an all-out nuclear holocaust it is known that serious
 radioactive fallout will gradually spread to affect even areas
 not initially hit by war.  but there are limits to how far the
 war clouds can spread.  it was discovered long ago that there is
 very little mixing between the air of the northern and southern
 hemispheres.  in the northern half of our planet, cold air from
 the north pole works its way southward towards the equator, then
 it works its way back to the north as warm air.  a mirror image
 of this process takes up the southern half of the planet. 
 northern and southern hemisphere air meet in the equatorial zone,
 but very little of the air changes places.
 
    the military conclusion, my friends, is this: the coming
 nuclear war could ruin large areas of the northern hemisphere for
 generations to come; but if the calculations are right, the
 southern hemisphere could escape virtually unaffected by the war. 
 this was music to the ears of the four rockefeller brothers.  a
 quick look at the globe of the world shows why.  the rockefeller
 cartel has dominated latin america ever since world war ii.  as i
 discussed in my very first monthly audio letter, nelson
 rockefeller solidified the cartel grip on latin america during
 the war.  he accomplished this as so-called "coordinator of
 hemispheric defense" for then-president franklin d. roosevelt. 
 so that takes care of the south american continent and its
 natural resources.
 
    then there is the african continent.  there, too, rockefeller
 control was already in effect over wide areas of black africa,
 especially south of the equator.  all this was thanks to the
 efforts of john d. rockefeller iii, as i detailed in audio letter
 no. 36.
 
    looking around the globe, the most important remaining land
 masses from the standpoint of world domination are australia and
 new zealand.  thanks to world war ii, both were wide open to the
 rockefellers.
 
    the rockefeller brothers decided to establish secret military
 installations in the southern hemisphere for use after the coming
 war.  by this means they expected to become the masters of the
 surviving southern half of planet earth after the northern
 hemisphere war.  then, as the northern hemisphere gradually
 recovered from the nuclear holocaust, the rockefeller empire
 would be able to pick up the pieces.  in this way the third
 generation rockefeller brothers expected their family dynasty to
 inherit the earth.
 
    in order to control the southern hemisphere militarily after
 the war, some means would have to be available to project
 military power onto any land mass.  for example, revolts against
 rockefeller domination would require troops--not a blast from the
 beam weapons on the moon.  the most critical factor for postwar
 military domination of the world was found to be a navy.  a
 minimum of two secret naval fleets would be required--one based
 in the south atlantic, the other in the south pacific.  since the
 reserve naval fleets were to be kept secret until after the
 northern hemisphere nuclear war, they could not be built in
 existing shipyards.  new construction facilities had to be built
 and they had to be hidden.  to hide an entire shipyard is no
 small task; they take up a lot of space.  on top of that, it was
 essential that the ships remain hidden after they were built. 
 the best way to achieve that was to combine the shipyard and
 naval base into one over-all secret installation.  finally, the
 secret naval installation had to be invulnerable to nuclear
 attack; otherwise if its existence were ever discovered
 prematurely, the secret navy might be wiped out.
 
    the combined requirements for secrecy, space, and protection
 against attack were formidable; but one day in 1959, while all
 these plans were still in the early stages of development, the
 answer presented itself.  during a so-called banking trip to
 sweden, david rockefeller was given a tour of a unique hidden
 naval port.  the port is hollowed out from solid granite cliffs
 which come right down to the water.  the entrance to the port is
 a gigantic hole in the side of the cliff which can be sealed off
 with enormous steel doors.  inside this big doorway on the water
 a huge cavity has been hollowed out to accommodate ships.
 
    the rockefeller brothers and their military adviser decided
 that a bigger, more secret, better protected version of the
 swedish hidden port was just what they wanted.  a survey of
 candidate sites was then initiated.  the site survey covered
 coastal areas throughout the southern hemisphere.  many areas
 were rejected very quickly because the topography was wrong. 
 other areas were rejected because they were too close to the
 equator.  still others had to be ruled out because there were too
 many people living nearby, making the desired level of secrecy
 impossible.  finally, it was essential that the sites chosen for
 the secret naval installations be totally secure politically.
 
    at last the sites for the secret naval installations were
 selected.  in the south pacific, extreme southern new zealand was
 selected.  this is what i was alluding to in audio letter no. 71
 three months ago when i called attention to new zealand's extreme
 importance in the coming war.
 
    in order to obtain the necessary space, the secret new zealand
 naval installation had to be divided up into two sites located
 close together.  one is at the extreme southwest tip of south
 island where the mountain range known as the southern alps comes
 down virtually to the water's edge.  the other part of the
 installation is built into the northwest tip of stewart island,
 which is off the tip of south island.  the stewart island
 facility is hollowed out within a rise known as mt. anglem.
 
    the new zealand location met all the requirements.  ever since
 world war ii the government of new zealand has been tied even
 closer to the united states than to great britain.  the location
 is far from the equator, and the installations are buried deep
 under mountains, protected from nuclear attack.  they are also
 too deep to be reached by particle-beam attacks, and the new
 zealand site is well situated to command the entire south
 pacific.
 
    in the south atlantic an even more perfect site was found. 
 that site, my friends, is south georgia island.  it is located
 perfectly for naval domination of the entire south atlantic.  the
 tall, rugged mountains provided a perfect location for the secret
 installation at the northwest tip of the 100-mile long island. 
 it is controlled by great britain whose government, like that of
 new zealand, was willing to cooperate; and south georgia island
 was virtually uninhabited except for a whaling station on the
 northeast coast.  the whaling station was some 50 miles away from
 the secret new installation which was being built, but britain
 took no chances.  in 1965 the whaling station was closed down. 
 since that time there have been no inhabitants on south georgia
 island except for a few dozen alleged antarctic scientists.
 
    construction of the secret naval facilities--two in new
 zealand, one on south georgia island--began in the early 1960's. 
 the techniques were adapted from those used previously to build
 other large underground facilities, such as the norad
 installation inside cheyenne mountain, colorado; however these
 techniques were adapted in radically new ways to achieve
 construction access directly from the sea instead of overland. 
 in this way, the sheltering mountain was left undisturbed in
 appearance both during and after construction.
 
    the cuts in the mountain side which were necessary to let
 ships in and out were kept as small as possible and were well
 camouflaged.  like the swedish hidden naval port arrangement, the
 entrances to the secret installations can be sealed up.  when
 sealed, the entrance is virtually impossible to detect unless you
 know exactly where it is; and unlike most large construction
 projects, there are no tailings or piles of leftover rock lying
 around to attract attention.  the man-made caverns which house
 the secret naval installations are enormous, but all the rock and
 debris was disposed of at sea.
 
    once the secret naval facilities were built, they had to be
 outfitted for ship construction and docksite storage.  the fake
 disarmament of the united states during the 1960s contributed
 greatly to this task.  from 1961 to 1968 one man played a pivotal
 role in this elaborate rockefeller scheme.  he was then-secretary
 of defense robert mcnamara.  all through the 60's mcnamara
 presided over the public paring back of america's visible
 military power.  this included the closing down and dismantling
 of entire shipyards.  what we were not told was where all that
 shipyard equipment went afterwards.  where it went, my friends,
 was to the new secret installations which were being outfitted in
 new zealand and south georgia island!
 
    the secret naval installations have been used as duplication
 facilities to reproduce certain ships and submarines designed and
 built here in the united states.  as defense secretary caspar
 weinberger told congress recently, it is cheaper to build two
 ships at a time.  that is especially true if the second ship is
 an exact duplicate of the first.  this has become even more true
 in recent years through the use of computerized manufacturing
 techniques.
 
    the secret naval fleets which have been built at the secret
 installations are made up of duplicates--exact duplicates of
 certain other ships and submarines.  they are all nuclear
 powered--nuclear "subs"; nuclear cruisers; nuclear destroyers;
 and yes, nuclear aircraft carriers, three of them.  a secret twin
 was built for the u.s.s. nimitz, for the u.s.s. eisenhower, and
 for the newly-launched u.s.s. carl vincent.  all have been
 financed through the gigantic cost overruns, so called, that we
 constantly hear about in the defense department; and all three
 carriers have been provided with a full complement of aircraft
 whose manufacture was financed the same way!
 
    the ships of the secret american bolshevik naval fleets are
 all duplicates of other nuclear-powered vessels.  even so, the
 secret naval ships possess one key difference.
 
    last month i revealed that the so-called "stealth program" has
 succeeded in developing a kind of electromagnetic invisibility
 shield.  this technique makes an object invisible from a distance
 by distorting light waves in its vicinity.
 
    a whole new fleet of phantom war-planes are now going into
 crash production that use this principle; and, my friends, all of
 the secret american bolshevik navy ships have already been
 outfitted with similar stealth-field equipment!  the stealth
 principle is actually easier to apply to ships than to airplanes
 because there is more room for the powerful equipment that
 generates the field.
 
    after nuclear war one, the secret stealth navy of the american
 bolsheviks would be light years ahead of any other navy left on
 earth.  it would be perfect for the intended role of world
 domination.  the rockefellers set it all in motion long ago, my
 friends, but three years ago they lost control of the united
 states military.  now it's the american bolsheviks who are in
 control, and they are bent on war.
 
    these secret naval installations have precipitated what is
 being called the "falklands crisis."
 
 topic #2--in audio letter(r) no. 73 last month i described
 "project z", the new bolshevik three-phase strategy for nuclear
 war one.
 
    an elite group of american bolshevik military planners here
 are flushing out the plan right now at a secret war-room here in
 washington.  it's a plan by which the united states will strike
 the first nuclear blow, followed by all-out thermonuclear war
 with russia.
 
    having set off the holocaust, the bolsheviks here and in
 certain other countries plan to rise it out safe in comfortable
 war bunkers.  finally after nuclear war one fizzles out in
 stalemate, they plan to leave behind the ashes of the united
 states and her allies.  activating phase #3 of their grand
 strategy, they plan to unveil their secret weapons, especially
 their secret naval fleets.  with these they plan to conquer and
 rule what is left of the world.  the united states as we know it
 will be dead and gone; but in the eyes of the bolsheviks
 themselves, this outcome will constitute victory.
 
    up to now the nuclear war timetable which i first revealed two
 months ago is still on track.  they are still shooting for
 nuclear war to begin by september of this year 1982!  time is
 fast running out.
 
    the bolsheviks here are sprinting as fast as they can toward
 war; but, my friends, the bolsheviks are not the only runners in
 this race.  they have two deadly enemies, both of whom are
 equally determined to trip up the bolsheviks.  one enemy of the
 bolsheviks here is the rockefeller cartel; the other enemy is the
 new anti-bolshevik ruling clique in russia; and now these two
 mutual enemies of the bolsheviks are pooling their efforts in
 certain ways.
 
    in audio letter no. 71 three months ago i reported that a
 limited, new anti-bolshevik coalition was in the works between
 the rockefeller cartel and the russians.  the january 26 meeting
 between haig and gromyko in geneva, switzerland, was a turning
 point in the formation of this coalition.  it is now a reality,
 and is responsible for the so-called "falkland crisis" now
 dominating the headlines.  it should be emphasized that this new
 relationship between the rockefeller cartel and russia falls far
 short of a true alliance.  they have very major disputes to be
 settled between them, but for the time being they have called a
 truce between themselves to deal with their mutual deadly
 enemy--the bolsheviks here in america.
 
    the first priority of the russians and the rockefellers is to
 slow down the bolshevik preparations for imminent nuclear war. 
 if they can do that, time is on the side of the rockefeller
 cartel in certain political movements which i discussed last
 summer in audio letter no. 67.  a slow-down in the nuclear war
 timetable will also give more breathing space for additional
 anti-bolshevik actions to be implemented.
 
    the joint rockefeller-russian planners decided by mid-february
 that military action against the bolsheviks was essential very
 quickly.  no other type of action had any hope of taking effect
 fast enough to prevent nuclear war by the end of this summer.
 
    the exact details of the "project z" war plan are not known to
 either the rockefellers or the russians, but the general outlines
 are known to be as i described last month.
 
    it was decided that military action should be devised that
 would undermine phase #3 of the bolshevik war plan--that is, the
 bolshevik-controlled secret naval installations and fleets in the
 southern hemisphere should be attacked and crippled.  by working
 together, the rockefeller cartel and the russians were able to
 devise an attack plan which neither could have carried out alone. 
 the rockefeller group, who built and originally controlled these
 bases, provided detailed intelligence about the best way to
 attack them.  the russians with their enormous military machine
 provided the muscle to actually carry out the attack.
 
    it was essential to devise a scheme that would enable both
 secret fleets in the south atlantic and south pacific to be
 attacked.  survival intact of either fleet would leave the
 bolshevik war plan still workable.
 
    military analysts concluded very quickly that a direct assault
 on the new zealand facilities was out of the question.  there was
 no combination of commandos, frogmen, or other military force
 which could possibly keep an attack secret from the outside
 world.  any attack on the new zealand bases would set off the
 very war which the rockefellers and russians want to prevent.
 
    but the situation in the south atlantic was a different
 matter.  in a way, the greatest asset of south georgia island was
 also its achilles' heel.  the extreme isolation which protected
 the secrecy of the south georgia base also made a covert military
 assault feasible.  the key lay with argentina and her
 long-standing claims to the falkland islands.
 
    as i mentioned in topic #1, the rockefeller cartel has
 dominated all of latin america for decades.  cartel operatives
 were sent to argentina to work out a deal with the government
 military junta there.  the historic dispute over the falkland
 islands was to be used to provide a ruse, a military cover, to
 enable the south georgia base to be attacked.  the argentine
 generals were not told everything about the situation by any
 means, but they were told enough to make clear what they were to
 do.
 
    as an inducement to cooperate, the argentine leaders were
 promised handsome rewards.  they were guaranteed that after the
 shooting was over, the falkland islands would remain in argentine
 hands.  this guarantee included the promise of covert military
 assistance as needed against the royal navy.  and to bolster the
 troubled argentine economy, it was promised that the rockefeller
 cartel will help develop the immense offshore oil reserves.  with
 these combined promises of military glory and financial rewards,
 the argentine military junta agreed to the plan.
 
    on march 19 argentina carried out act #1 in the joint attack
 plan.  a group of argentine scrap-metal merchants, of all things,
 landed at the abandoned old whaling station on south georgia
 island.  supposedly they were there to dismantle the old
 buildings and cart them off to sell.  while they were at it they
 also raised the argentine flag over the work-site.  the british,
 always nervous about south georgia island, promptly reacted as
 expected.  the british antarctic survey ship "endurance" put 22
 marines ashore.  they drove off the scrap merchants and tore down
 the argentine flag.
 
    the incident provided the desired excuse for the argentine
 junta to bring the simmering 150-year-old falklands dispute to a
 boil.  from time to time in the past, argentina has claimed that
 south georgia is part of the falklands because it is administered
 that way by britain.  that argument is very flimsy but it now
 came in very handy.  it was nothing new to hear this from
 argentine leaders, so there was no hint of what was really afoot.
 
    during late march, argentine military forces started
 assembling for an assault on the falklands.  "nothing new",
 thought the british high command.  argentina has carried out
 threatening maneuvers in the past many times.  it was believed
 that they were about to do it again; but on april 2 argentine
 forces did the unexpected.  after many past false alarms, this
 time they actually invaded and seized the islands.  all argentine
 public statements emphasized the long-standing historical claims
 to the falklands themselves; but just for good measure, the next
 day a small argentine force also seized far-off south georgia
 island.  the force was so small that it gave the appearance
 initially that it was just a side show from argentina's point of
 view; however, the small contingent of 22 royal marines were
 overpowered and bundled off the island along with a group of 13
 alleged scientists.  that was the moment of payoff in the joint
 rockefeller-russian attack plan.
 
    thanks to the elaborate distraction staged by the argentine
 forces, a special commando team got onto the island undetected. 
 based on the detailed rockefeller information about the base, the
 team moved to a location on the mountain directly above the
 cavernous secret base.  special high-speed drilling equipment was
 set up by the rockefeller members of the team while the russian
 members concentrated on military defense.  by late that evening,
 april 3, the military high command in london finally learned what
 was really taking place.  the secret south georgia base was under
 attack by virtually the only means possible.  the joint
 rockefeller-russian team were drilling a shaft down through the
 mountain toward the hollowed out cavern inside.  it was only a
 matter of time until their drill would break through the ceiling
 of the giant hidden naval base.  once the hole was made, the next
 step was obvious.  the rockefeller-russian team would put a
 weapon of some kind through the hole.  the best guess was that it
 would be a nerve gas.
 
    the shock waves that went through the highest levels of the
 british government on the evening of april 3 can hardly be
 described, my friends.  the thatcher government, like the
 so-called reagan administration here in america, is bolshevik
 controlled.  that's why margaret thatcher always says, "me, too"
 any time the reagan administration says or does anything against
 russia.  both governments are party to the secret nuclear war
 plan in complete betrayal of the people of their respective
 countries, and on the evening of april 3 they suddenly discovered
 that their precious war plan was in deep, deep trouble.
 
    immediately the thatcher government started assembling a naval
 armada to sail for the south atlantic.  haste was the order of
 the day.  the drilling on south georgia island was proceeding
 around the clock.  the best estimates were that the drilling
 would break through into the roof of the naval base in about
 three weeks, on or about april 24.  if help did not reach south
 georgia by then, the secret installation might be doomed.  the
 forces stationed at the installation itself were unable to defend
 themselves under the circumstances.  their mighty naval ships
 were ships in a bottle.  they did not dare open the bottle to
 sail out to fight because the russian commandos were armed with
 tactical and nuclear weapons.  to open the blast-proof entrance
 doors would be suicide.
 
    on april 5, just two days after south georgia island was
 seized, some 40 naval ships began moving out of british ports. 
 the same day lord carrington was sacked as foreign minister.  he
 was forced to resign, my friends, because he had assisted the
 rockefeller attack plan by downplaying the argentine attack
 preparations.
 
    that same day, april 5, new zealand, the home of the other
 secret naval fleet, broke diplomatic relations with argentina. 
 the two hidden new zealand facilities had been placed on "red
 alert."  as a precautionary measure, all submarines at the twin
 base were ordered to sea.  several surface ships were already at
 sea undergoing "sea trials", but that still left seven (7) major
 ships inside the hidden twin naval base including one of the
 nuclear aircraft carriers i mentioned earlier.
 
    on that busy day of april 5, argentina's foreign minister,
 costa mendez, was at the united nations in new york.  he was
 alarmed by the deployment of such a large part of the royal navy. 
 costa mendez hurried here to washington to seek reassurances from
 certain officials.  he got them!
 
    for the next two weeks or so the news was filled with stories
 about the allegedly slow movement of the british fleet while
 negotiations went on.  that, my friends, was only a cover story. 
 the royal navy was actually joining up and moving as rapidly as
 possible toward south georgia island.  if the task force arrived
 in time to save the secret base, a major battle was likely.  the
 official stories about "slow movement" of the british armada were
 intended to give a cushion of time for that battle.  if need be,
 the fleet would have several days to retake south georgia island,
 then it could move on to arrive near the falklands on the
 announced schedule.  in this way the crucial importance of south
 georgia island would be hidden and the big secret preserved.
 
    it was initially expected that advance elements of the british
 fleet would reach the vicinity of south georgia island within two
 weeks.  that would have been soon enough to attack the joint
 rockefeller-russian commando team and stop the drilling before it
 was completed.  but russian cosmospheres and submarines made a
 shambles of the plan.
 
    key advance elements of the south georgia attack contingent
 left ascension island early april 14, two days before it was
 announced officially.  shortly after they did so, they ran into
 trouble.  russian cosmospheres and attack submarines closed in on
 a single ship which was critical to the planned counterassault on
 south georgia island.  the cosmospheres bombarded the bridge and
 combat information center of the ship with neutron radiation.  in
 moments the ship was without any command, its communications and
 radar silenced.  then a russian "sub" closed in and quickly
 finished off this key british ship with torpedoes.  it broke
 apart with secondary explosions and sank rapidly.  so far as is
 known, there were no survivors.
 
    this unexpected shock in the mid-atlantic produced two
 results, both important:
 
 first, it caused a slowdown in the race toward the south atlantic
 by the british armada.  the task force had to be regrouped into a
 configuration better suited for an enroute defense, but that cost
 valuable time.  public announcements from london about the
 progress of the fleet reflected this slowdown.  the timetable for
 arrival on battle stations near the falklands started stretching
 out longer and longer.  all this bought extra time for the joint
 commando team on south georgia island.  the drilling continued.
 
 the other result of the sinking was equally important.  word was
 flashed to the south pacific stealth navy to prepare for possible
 action.  it was obvious that the russian navy was getting
 involved in the atlantic, which meant that the royal navy could
 be in big trouble.  during the dead of night, early april 15, the
 seven stealth ships put to sea from their twin secret bases in
 southern new zealand.  they deployed to a secret operational
 headquarters area in the antipodes islands, 450 miles southeast
 of new zealand.  their electromagnetic shields were operating to
 provide protection from attack.  these shields make it impossible
 to communicate with the outside world or even to see it, as i
 explained last month; but once they arrived at the antipodes, the
 stealth ships hooked up to buoys equipped with shielded
 communication cables to the island headquarters.  the antipodes
 headquarters, in turn, was in constant touch with the south
 georgia base by way of a transoceanic cable around the tip of
 south america.  the deployment of the available ships of the
 south pacific stealth fleet was exactly what the joint
 rockefeller-russian planners had hoped for.  the ships had been
 flushed out from their essentially invulnerable hiding place in
 new zealand!
 
    the british ship's sinking of april 14 was also followed by
 other events.  on april 15 the argentine navy started moving out
 of port.  the same day, alexander haig arrived again in buenos
 aires.  supposedly he was there as a diplomat, but in reality he
 was there as a general, dealing with generals.  haig is the top
 governmental operative of the rockefeller cartel, as i have
 revealed in the past.  he was making sure that the argentines did
 not get cold feet and back down at that critical moment.  four
 days later, april 19, haig left for washington.  as he boarded
 his plane, haig somberly told reporters, "time is running out." 
 and so it was, my friends, for the secret south georgia base.
 
    the very next day, april 20, the drill broke through into the
 hollowed-out cavern of the naval base.  bolshevik military
 analysts in london had not expected that it could be completed
 until at least the following weekend.  the british fleet was
 still out of range.
 
    the weapon which the commando team inserted down through the
 long hole was a small, compact russian neutron bomb.  when it was
 detonated inside the confines of the huge artificial cave, the
 effects were devastating.  the intense radiation instantly killed
 everyone inside the base.  also the heat and blast effects of the
 bomb are believed to have damaged all the ships inside
 sufficiently to badly disable them.
 
    meanwhile, russian cosmospheres and submarines were converging
 on the stealth ships which were near the antipodes islands
 awaiting orders.  from a distance, the ships were invisible to
 the eye due to their protective shields, which also protect
 against beam-weapon attack; but they were sitting ducks for the
 tactics which the russians employed.
 
    floating overhead, the cosmospheres located the seven ships
 using their psychoenergetic range-finding equipment known as prf. 
 as i have reported in the past, there is no method known by which
 prf can be jammed.  the cosmospheres radioed the exact locations
 of the ships to the attack submarines.  the "subs" were armed
 with special non-homing, non-nuclear torpedoes designed to
 explode on impact.  more sophisticated torpedoes would have been
 thrown off course or detonated prematurely by the protective
 shield of each ship; but these simple torpedoes just cruise right
 through each invisibility field to strike the ship and explode. 
 within 15 minutes after the attack began, all seven bolshevik
 stealth ships were on their way to the bottom, and with them went
 their bolshevik commanders and mercenary crews collected from
 around the world.
 
    the south pacific action took place just after sunset local
 time.  the time here in washington was around 2:00 p.m. april 23. 
 that evening secretary of state haig was seen briefly in public
 with the new british foreign minister, francis pym.  pym was
 wearing the artificial pseudo-smile which diplomats are taught
 always to display in public.  but not haig.  haig was grinning
 from ear to ear, and no wonder.  the joint rockefeller-russian
 military operation had been a brilliant success.  the secret
 bolshevik south atlantic fleet had been virtually wiped out,
 bottled up inside south georgia island; and the south pacific
 fleet, while not totally wiped out, had been badly crippled.  by
 working together, the rockefeller cartel and the russians had won
 the secret naval war of the southern hemisphere.
 
 topic #3--as i say these words, news reports give the impression
 that war is about to erupt in the south atlantic, but the real
 war in the southern hemisphere is already over.  what we are
 watching now is the beginning of its bloody aftermath.  that
 aftermath is the battle for the falkland islands.  they have been
 promised to argentina as a reward for her role in the secret war.
 
    at this moment the bolsheviks here in washington are pressing
 for a public announcement that the united states will side with
 britain.  as soon as that takes place, military action will heat
 up fast around the falklands.  britain has no choice but to
 fight.  she has already suffered casualties which cannot be
 explained without a public battle; but by fighting, the
 bolsheviks in britain are running the risk of a humiliating and
 tragic defeat for the royal navy.
 
    meanwhile, the rockefeller strategists here are now
 concentrating on a fast-building, anti-nuclear-war campaign.  on
 all sides now we are hearing about the so-called "nuclear freeze
 movement."  there are documentaries, articles, publicity of all
 kinds to sensitize us to the terrors of nuclear war.  in recent
 months, there have even been referenda popping up on election
 ballots dealing with the nuclear war issue.  medical doctors are
 banding together to warn the public about what would happen if
 there were a nuclear war.
 
    we are being told that all this is just popping up
 spontaneously.  we are now 37 years into the nuclear age and
 nothing like this has ever gained so much momentum before, yet
 now we are supposed to believe that millions of americans have
 spontaneously gotten the same ideas at the same time.  if you
 believe that, my friends, i give up.  movements like this never,
 and i mean never, develop without leadership, organization, and
 money--and plenty of it.
 
    what we are watching is the rockefeller public relations
 machine at work.  as i've explained in the past, the rockefeller
 cartel cannot afford to let a nuclear war take place.  if it
 does, they will lose everything because they are not in a
 position to control it.  instead, the deadly enemies of the
 rockefeller cartel, the bolsheviks here, will win out if there is
 a war; and so the rockefeller faction is now doing everything in
 its power to prevent a nuclear war.
 
    the present anti-nuclear-war orientation of the rockefeller
 cartel creates certain temporary common interests between them
 and russia; but as russia's new rulers know very well, this does
 not spring from any great moral perspective on the part of the
 rockefeller group.  it's purely a matter of practical necessity
 right now for the rockefellers.
 
    the russians regard the united states as a house divided, and
 they are exploiting that division by working in careful ways with
 the rockefellers.  their first priority is to rid the world of
 the deadly bolshevik menace of all-out, even suicidal, nuclear
 war; but once that is done, they know that there will be a day of
 reckoning with the rockefeller cartel some day.
 
    the rockefeller group is working toward a definite objective
 with their new anti-nuclear-war propaganda.  that objective is
 renewed power--and power that moves them closer to their old
 dream of world government.  the bolsheviks here have unwittingly
 provided fertile ground for the powerful new rockefeller antiwar
 campaign.  under bolshevik control, the so-called reagan
 administration has become so hawkish that it's scaring people. 
 the rockefeller antiwar campaign is designed to capitalize on
 that latent fear as a tool of power.
 
    these days the smell of war is in the air.  the falklands
 crisis is helping to make that more intense.  the rockefeller
 propaganda machine is now paving the way for the argument that
 surrender of sovereignty is the only way to avoid war.  a new
 super-united nations of sorts is now in the works to fill the
 bill.  it will have teeth!  as presently envisioned, the new
 organization will be based in geneva, switzerland.  the working
 name, though this may be changed, is the "world nonproliferation
 council."  the plan is to bring it into being as the outgrowth of
 nuclear nonproliferation treaties, but its true purpose will be
 to use fear--the fear of war--to control us all.
 
                        last minute summary
 
    now it's time for my last minute summary.  in this audio
 letter i have reported on the reasons behind the so-called
 falkland islands crisis.  the crisis erupted because of secret
 bolshevik-controlled naval installations in the southern
 hemisphere.  these have been attacked by joint action of the
 rockefeller cartel and the russians in an attempt to slow down
 the nuclear-war timetable.  the attacks were successful, but the
 results remain to be seen.  one result, though, is that the royal
 navy has now been drawn into a trap.  britain's waterloo at sea
 may well be at hand.
 
    my friends, two factions are struggling for control over our
 united states--the rockefeller cartel and the bolsheviks.  they
 differ in style but both seek to control us through fear.  if we
 are ever to rise above their trickery, it must be through the
 power of our lord jesus christ, our only hope.  as the scripture
 tells us, our lord "...has not given us the spirit of fear; but
 of power, of love, and of a sound mind."  we must learn to wage
 peace.  as our lord declared long ago, "blessed are the
 peacemakers: for they shall be called sons of god."
 
    until next month, god willing, this is dr. beter.  thank you,
 and may god bless each and every one of you.
 