    675 mass. ave., cambridge, ma  02139, usa +1 (617) 876-3296
 lines: 581
 sender: daemon@ai.mit.edu
 message-id: <1pqtefinn6m8@life.ai.mit.edu>
 nntp-posting-host: life.ai.mit.edu
 
 
 
 
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 
 _____________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                                   april 5, 1993
 
 
                             press briefing
                        by george stephanopolous
 
 
                           the briefing room
 
 
  10:10 a.m. edt
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as you know, the president is soon 
 to be on his way, on amtrack to camden yards.  he'll be throwing out 
 the first pitch.
 	     
 	     q	  it's marc, the maryland area transit, it's not 
 amtrack.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, it's not amtrack?  well, he's 
 going from union station, you're right.  excuse me.
 	     
 	     q	  george, what exactly are you prepared to do to 
 break the logjam with  ??? senate?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, as you know, there are 
 discussions between senator mitchell and senator dole this morning, 
 and i think that the president is going to continue to make the point 
 that he believes that our investment package, our jobs package needs 
 to be passed as quickly as possible.  we need this investment for 
 summer jobs, for immunization, for highway construction, for the 
 important programs that will put people back to work right away this 
 summer.  and the president continues to believe his program should be 
 passed.
 	     
 	     q	  will he compromise, that's the question?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, as you know, the discussions 
 are going on this morning in the senate betwen senator mitchell and 
 senator dole, let's see what they come up with.  but the president 
 believes his jobs program should go forward.
 	     
 	     q	  george, would the president be willing to accept $8 
 billion for one year, which apparently appears to be the compromise 
 being offered by --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i don't know what is being 
 offered by either side.  the senate discussions are going on right 
 now, let's see what happens today.
 	     
 	     q	  would he go that far -- no matter what the 
 republicans have offered so far, would he go that far, $8 billion per 
 year?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president believes that his 
 program should be passed at this time.  clearly, we're going to be 
 willing to listen to what the senators might or might not be able to 
 come up with, but i'm not going to get into figures right now.  let's 
 see what happens.
 	     
 	     q	  it's reasonable to assume, isn't it, from what has 
 happened so far that a compromise is going to be necessary in order 
 to get a vote?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the republicans seem more 
 intrested in stopping progress on the president's jobs bill, than in 
 doing something to create --  mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the 
 republicans seem more interested in stopping progress on the 
 president's jobs bill than in doing something to create real action, 
 real jobs this summer for the american people.  i think there's no 
 question about that.  there's been some frustration of legislative 
 activity over the last few days.
 	     
 	     q	  so, you'll need to compromise to get your package 
 through?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we'll see what happens with the 
 conversations between senator mitchell and senator dole this morning.
 	     
 	     q	     prepared to compromise --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president's prepared to listen 
 to what senator mitchell has to say this morning after his meeting 
 with senator dole. 
 	     
 	     q	  does he feel that he has been defeated in his --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not in the least.  in fact, he's 
 been very successful so far in the beginning of his term.
 	     
 	     q	  how?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he passed his budget in record 
 time, in six weeks, and it's a budget which reduces the deficit by 
 $500 billion over five years.  and it's a budget which provides for 
 important investments in our future.  right now we've also had strong 
 passage of his jobs program through the house.  simply because a 
 minority of republicans in the senate choose to perpetuate gridlock 
 and hold up action on the president's jobs program is not a sign that 
 he is not succeeding overall.
 	     
 	     q	  he can't beat this, can he?
 	     
 	     q	  the fact is they can do that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the republicans can stop 
 action.  there's no question about that.
 	     
 	     q	  what are you going to do about it?
 	     
 	     q	  george, what do you know about these alleged notes 
 taken by boris yeltsin during one of the meetings in which it appears 
 that the president told boris yeltsin not to trust the japanese; that 
 when they say yes they mean no?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's a complete 
 misreading of what happened at the meeting.  the context of the 
 conversation was that president clinton was actually reassuring 
 president yeltsin at the time about his conversations with prime 
 minister miyazawa over the kuril islands and the prime minister's 
 belief that japan would play a constructive role in the g-7 process.  
 i mean this was a casual comment about japanese courtesy and 
 etiquette but overall it was in the context of a conversation where 
 he was reassuring president yeltsin that he believed the japanese 
 were serious about their commitment to the g-7 process.
 	     
 	     q	   are you saying that the president said that when 
 the japanese say yes they mean no?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's not -- i don't know the 
 exact words and there was a much longer discussion about he did say 
 something along the lines that he believes that on this issue prime 
 minister miyazawa intends to really go forward with the g-7 process.
 	     
 	     q	  have there been any attempts to explain this to the 
 japanese because apparently the japanese press has picked this up and 
 there appears to be --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i've seen the reports in the 
 japanese press and it actually does put the situation in context.  it 
 does talk about the japanese -- understanding the japanese points of 
 view.  i don't think it's going to be a problem.  i believe that 
 there may have been some diplomatic context just to clear things up 
 but i'm not positive.
 	     
 	     q	  george, was the specific comment that was made 
 specific to the kuril island situation or was it a general 
 observation on japanese etiquette?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the discussion was about --
 	     
 	     q	  the specific comment is what i'm asking about that 
 has alleged to have been translated from the russian notes, "when the 
 japanese say yes they mean no."
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, it was a combination.  i mean 
 i don't think that's the whole sentence.  i think that the specific 
 comment was a broad, general observation followed up by a specific 
 finish to the sentence where he said in this case he believes that 
 prime minister miyazawa means to keep the commitment.
 	     
 	     q	  was he saying it facetiously first?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it was just a casual 
 observation.
 	     
 	     q	  and then you say diplomatic contacts were made to 
 clear it up.  has the president sent a message?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, i don't think the president 
 spoke; i believe that secretary christopher has made some calls but 
 i'm not sure exactly how many.
 	     
 	     q	  well, this obviously is a bigger deal than you're 
 making it out to be if christopher has had to make some calls.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, no.  it was just that we got 
 the reports in vancouver and the secretary wanted to make sure that 
 it was understood and make sure there was absolutely no 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  -- reports in vancouver, and the 
 secretary wanted to make sure that it was understood, and make sure 
 there is absolutely no misunderstanding, and i don't believe there is 
 on.
 	     
 	     q	  what is our position about the japanese?  that they 
 may have to say one thing, but actualy mean another?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  the position on the japanese 
 is as the president stated to president yeltsin throughout the two 
 days.  he said that he had had a good conversation with prime 
 minister miazawa prior to the summit.  he reiterated the u.s. 
 position, the long-standing support for the japanese position on the 
 kuril islands, but also reiterated prime minister miazawa's 
 commitment to move forward on the g-7 process and to play a 
 constructive role.  and i think president yeltsin was very glad to 
 hear that.
 	     
 	     q	  after listening to secretary christopher on iraq 
 for the last few days, i'm a little confused.  what is the u.s. 
 policy?  do you want to see saddam hussein overturned?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's the same policy that secretary 
 christopher has reiterated, and all of the u.s officials have 
 reiterated.  we expect full and complete and unequivocal compliance 
 with all u.n. resolutions.  right now we do not have that compliance.
 	     
 	     q	     throwing it out further that if iraq complies, 
 saddam can't stay in office?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  right.  i think that that's -- our 
 judgment is that it is not possible for saddam hussein to comply with 
 the resolutions and stay in power.  but the important point is that 
 we expect compliance by iraq with all u.n. resolutions, and we will 
 continue to demand it.
 	     
 	     q	  and are you concerned the iran will become the 
 dominant power in the area --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  secretary christopher has also 
 spoken to iran over the last several days, and he says we also expect 
 full iranian compliance with all international norms, and stopping 
 support of terrorism.
 	     
 	     q	  that's a very glib statement that he won't stay in 
 power if he complies with u.n. resolutions.  on what logic do you 
 base that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  right now saddam hussein is not 
 complying with the u.n. resolutions at all.  he is not respecting the 
 rights of his people, as is required by the u.n. resolution.  he is 
 not fully complying with all the resolutions regarding inspections.  
 he is not fully complying with all the resolutions regarding 
 armaments.
 	     
 	     q	  well, when do you think that if he did comply he 
 would be out of power?
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, right now his power rests on 
 the repression of his people.  if he stopped doing that it would make 
 it more difficult for him to stay in power.
 	     
 	     q	  george, back on the stimulus package, why is it 
 that you and the president accuse the republicans of playing pure 
 politics and perpetuating gridlock?  why is it that -- what evidence 
 do you have that they just don't have a genuine idealogical 
 difference with you that's in good faith?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the fact that several times 
 in the past the republicans, many of the ones who are now leading the 
 fight for the filibuster, have supported the very funding they now 
 seek to stop, most especially, the highway funding.  
 	     
 	     q	  george, in regards to that, some of the moderate 
 republicans said that the white house erred by not being more open to 
 them during the -- while the plan was put together, that they had 
 one, sort of, proforma meeting between the white house and the senate 
 republicans, and that was it.  does the administration look back and 
 thinks perhaps it could have done a better job of working with some -
 -
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i'm not sure that it's true 
 that there was only one meeting.  i mean, the president met with the 
 republican leadership on at least two occasions before the 
 introduction of his package.  he met with the entire senate 
 republican caucus also for lunch, and went up there.  we are 
 continually in contact with as many republicans as we can find who 
 have an interest in the president's package.  we are interested in 
 what they have to say, as well.  but we believe that this program is 
 important, and we're going to continue to fight for it.
 	     
 	     q	     your all or nothing, do it with the democrats 
 alone strategy, did you maybe miscalculate the ability to get it 
 through?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i mean, i think that there is 
 no question that under the senate rules a determined minority can 
 frustrate activity.  i mean, there is just no question about that.  
 you only need 40 plus one to keep going.  40 plus one to keep going 
 and to stop any action, and that's what the republicans are doing.
 	     
 	     q	     going to rethink the way you attempt to get 
 other things passed as you go through this process for the rest of 
 the summer?
 	     
 	     q	     work with republicans and try to woo some 
 republicans into your camp?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think we're going to continue to 
 look for the support of republicans whenever we can get it on the 
 president's intiatives?
 	     
 	     q	  but on this one -- how are you going to do it 
 differently than you did it on this one because on this one you 
 really did stiff the republicans from the beginning and made it clear 
 that it was a democratic majority that would get this through and 
 could get it through and you really didn't need republican votes?  
 are you going to take a different tack when you have to go for 
 particular votes?  when you have to go through --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i can't see into the future and 
 understand every possible turn in the legislative road.  clearly the 
 president's going to continue to reach out when he can.
 	     
 	     q	  you don't have any regrets then about the way you 
 have handled it up to now and you don't plan any changes in your 
 approach in dealing with the republicans in congress based on this 
 experience?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  obviously the president would like 
 his package passed as quickly as possible and he's going to continue 
 to press for that.  we will continue to reach out to republicans, 
 there's not question about that.  and we'll continue to reason with 
 them and try and find appropriate avenues for cooperation.  in this 
 case the republicans have chosen to unify around a filibuster, around 
 a plan to frustrate action not a plan to move forward.
 	     
 	     q	  they're being denied any other legislative means of 
 putting their proposals forward.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think they're being --
 	     
 	     q	     any ideas.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think their amendments are being 
 defeated; i don't know that they're being denied.
 	     
 	     q	     to present them.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's not exactly true.  i mean 
 they get the votes --
 	     
 	     q	     that theirs can be passed though by the 
 parliamentary rules under which they're playing.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  unless they get a majority in 
 support all the way around, no, that's not exactly true.
 	     
 	     q	  george, one more on iraq.  is the administration 
 backing any of the iraqi opposition?  grooming any new leadership?
 	     
 	     q	     backing any of the iraqi -- leadership?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, i -- again, we're pressing for 
 iraqi compliance.  i don't know if we can get into the business of 
 grooming leadership.  i believe there have been some contacts, at 
 some levels, with iraqi opposition groups.  i don't know  about 
 anything recently.
 	     
 	     q	     jesse jackson, who, of course, is not the 
 president's best friend, has, however, been told that there is to be 
 some kind of town meeting, or some kind of involvement by the 
 president, pre-empted the ball game -- los angeles.  will he consider 
 something like that, or any other kind of intervention there?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, as you know, the president 
 appointed commerce secretary ron brown, about 10 days ago, to be a 
 special envoy to california, and coordiante cabinet activities around 
 the california economic situation, including the situation in los 
 angeles.  
 	     
 	     i believe there will also be visits out to los angeles 
 by the education -- or have been visits by the education secretary, 
 mr. riley.  i believe that transportation secretary pena and hud 
 secretary cisneros are also going out.  and there may be other visits 
 by cabinet officials over the next several days and weeks.  i 
 wouldn't rule out the possibility of a visit by president clinton to 
 california.  obviously, he is following the situation closely, and is 
 concerned about making sure that we make the right long term policy 
 decisions that will help create the kind of economic opportunities 
 which help prevent disturbances.  but we're going to continue to 
 watch it.
 	     
 	     q	  george, as a follow-up, reverend jackson is also 
 supposed to be outside the ball park today, in baltimore, with a 
 group of supporters protesting the lack of minorities in baseball 
 management.  does the president have a position on that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president has received 
 correspondence from reverend jackson.  i know that reverend jackson 
 has also spoken with the white house chief of staff, mack mclarty.  
 he clearly raises serious questions.  there has been some progress in 
 baseball over the last several years, but still not enough.  but the 
 president intends to continue to go to the ball game.
 	     
 	     q	  is he going to say anything about it today, or see 
 reverend jackson while he's out there?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if he is going to see 
 them, but as i said, the president believes that reverend jackson has 
 raised some serious questions, and it's something that, as i said, 
 even though there has been progress, it's clearly not enough.
 	     
 	     q	  did reverend jackson ask him not to go to the ball 
 game?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure about that.  i believe 
 the characterization the reverend jackson is talking about is an 
 informational pickett.  i don't know that he asked him not to go to 
 the ball game, but he sent a long, detailed, formal letter outlining 
 his concerns with the situation in major league baseball and the 
 president read it.
 	     
 	     q	  george, the orioles are playing the rangers, the 
 managing partner of the rangers is george w. bush.  is he going to be 
 there, and is he going to meet with the president?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.
 	     
 	     q	  what is the mubarak schedule?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i know that president mubarak is 
 coming tomorrow morning for a working meeting, they will have a 
 lunch, and i believe that he is having dinner tonight with vice 
 president gore.
 	     
 	     q	  and joint statements tomorrow --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe so, yes.  at the end, 
 yes.
 	     
 	     q	  is there evidence, george, that the egyptians did 
 warn the u.s. about a potential terrorist bombing -- terrorist 
 activities?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as reported in the new york times, 
 i mean, i think that president mubarak did say that there has been 
 general conversations with the egyptians, as there have been for a 
 long period of time.  we do have general intelligence sharing, i 
 mean.  but president mubarak was very careful to point out that there 
 was no specific information on this visit that was passed forward.  
 the president will continue to investigate the situation, but he also 
 reiterates his belief that we cannot tolerate terrorism of any kind.
 	     
 	     q	  george, he did make specific -- or the egyptians, 
 apparently, did issue specific warnings about this individual who, 
 forgive me --this individual who, forgive me the name escapes me at 
 the moment, and said the egyptians were more or less rebuffed in 
 their attempts to get some kind of action.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i don't know if i would 
 agree with your characterization of the mubarak interview.  he did 
 say that they gave general warnings about the possibility of a 
 network in the united states and upon which we took appropriate 
 action.  but there was no specific information on this specific 
 operation at all.
 	     
 	     q	  so, the white house doesn't feel that any of the 
 law enforcement agencies whether it be the cia or fbi who would have 
 received this kind of information was lax or derelict in its duty in 
 not pursuing some kind of --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, not at all.
 	     
 	     q	  what's next with serbia?  it got only a passing 
 mention in the news conference yesterday --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  you didn't get to ask your 
 question.
 	     
 	     q	  yes, exactly.  was there any agreement on concerted 
 action between the two countries?  and even if there wasn't, what 
 does the u.s. do next?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think the u.s. is clearly going 
 to move forward in the u.n. today continuing discussions with our 
 allies on a sanctions resolution and we'll continue to look for ways 
 to press the serbians to come to the negotiating table and sign an 
 agreement.
 	     
 	     q	  george, why do you think sanctions is still an 
 option?  i mean the serbians make it clear that at least the 
 leadership is surviving just fine and they feel like they can wait 
 you out and even the administration officials we had in the other day 
 said there's no evidence that they're going to have an effect any 
 time soon.  the bosnian serbs have said no to the peace plan.  when 
 does no mean no and you have to do something different?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i mean we are doing something 
 different.  we're moving forward on further sanctions through the 
 u.n. and those discussions will continue.  we're going to continue to 
 try and tighten the noose on serbia, and i think that every 
 opportunity we have to do that will have an effect over time.
 	     
 	     q	  are we looking again at lifting the arms embargo? 
 mr. stephanopoulos:  the president has said that this is something 
 that is under consideration.
 	     
 	     q	  george, do you have any more on hugh rodham's 
 condition, how he's doing?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as far as i know nothing's changed.
 	     
 	     q	  george, -- week after mr. mubarak?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's a little unclear.  i think 
 we'll be able to get you more either tonight or tomorrow morning 
 after the mubarak visit.
 	     
 	     q	  is he going somewhere for easter?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not that i know of.
 	     
 	     q	  what more can you tell us about the additional aid 
 to russia that the president plans to ask congress about?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's going to be consulting with 
 the congress and with our g-7 partners over the next couple of weeks.  
 i know that he spoke last evening with congressman gephardt and their 
 delegation before the -- the congressional delegation meets with the 
 russians this week and those consultations will continue over the 
 next several weeks.
 	     
 	     q	  do you expect that package to be of the magnitude 
 of the one announced sunday?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not going to discuss the 
 magnitude.
 	     
 	     q	  how about the list of cold war restrictions, where 
 do you stand on that --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as the president said yesterday, 
 he's going to be looking for that list from the congress this week 
 and reviewing it.  he believes -- he's going to try and get it this 
 week and he's going to review the list, and we're going to take a 
 hard look at it.
 	     
 	     q	  but they're making it up?  i mean it's no white 
 house involvement, congress is compiling this list?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he's going to talk to the 
 congressional leaders about compiling the list but i'm certain we'll 
 be able to get our own researchers working as well.
 	     
 	     q	  george, isn't lifting the arms embargo more of a 
 probability than a possibility?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's something that's under 
 discussion.
 	     
 	     q	  secretary christopher has said that it's a matter 
 of time and -- for months before that happens.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, all i can say is that it's 
 something that the president is reviewing.  right now we're working 
 with our allies in the u.n on a sanctions resolution, and we'll 
 continue to review other matters.
 	     
 	     q	  george, can you tell us anything about the schedule 
 this week?  any travel?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they just asked about that.  i 
 don't have anything more beyond tomorrow's visit with mubarak right 
 now.
 	     
 	     q	  are there consultations, george, with any jewish 
 american organizations concerning jackson-vanick?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as you know the national conference 
 of soviet jewry has a list of, i believe, 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  -- as you know, the national 
 conference of soviet jewry has a list of, i believe, 200 refuseniks.  
 we'll certainly take a look at that and continue appropriate 
 discussions.
 	     
 	     thanks.
 
 
                                  ###
 
 
 