
 cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes:
 
 ><ericsc4x1k9.apz@netcom.com>, erics@netcom.com (eric smith) writes:
 
 >> gsmith@lauren.iwr.uni-heidelberg.de (gene w. smith) writes:
  
 ># #are you saying that:
 ># 
 ># #(1) people voted for hitler, and he became reich chancellor, in good
 ># #part because he used bully boys to attack communists,
  
 ># hitler did not become become reich chancellor because people voted for
 ># him. i'm not sure if you meant to imply that or not, but i just thought
 ># i'd bring that up.
 
 >hitler became chancellor because people voted for his political
 >party.  that's not a huge difference in a parliamentary system.
 
 your statement is a common misconception, but it just isn't true. in the
 german weimar system, the chancellor was not necessarily the leader of the
 largest reichstag party; the chancellor was appointed by the president and
 generally was the leader of a coalition of parties who could form an effective
 majority in the reichstag. beyond that, the implication that hitler rose to
 the chancellorship because a majority of germans wanted nazi rule is false
 as well. before president hindenburg appointed hitler chancellor in january
 1933, the german people did not show a particular desire to be led either by
 hitler or by the nazi party. these are the results of the march 1932 election
 for president, the closest hitler ever came to direct election: hindenburg
 49.6%, hitler 30.1%, thaelmann 13.2%, duesterberg 6.8%. in the runoff election
 in april the results were: hindenburg 53%, hitler 36.8%, thaelmann 10.2%.
 so we can see that hitler personally was supported by only about a third of
 german voters.
 
 similarly, the nazi party never received more than 37% of the vote in
 reichstag elections. that occurred in july 1932. in the november 1932 election
 the nazis *lost* two million votes and 34 seats, down from 230 to 196 out of
 the 608 in the reichstag. comparitively, the socialists had 121 and the
 communists 100. the communists had gained 11 seats, and the german national
 party, which had supported the previous government, had picked up a million
 of the nazis' lost votes to gain 15 seats (up to 52). i think the other large
 party was the catholic center party (i don't know how many seats they had but
 i think they were declining), and there were numerous other small parties.
 thus the nazi vote was on the decline at the time hitler was appointed
 chancellor.
 
 what brought hitler to power was *not* the demand of the german people for
 hitler or the nazis to run things, but the inability of the other parties to
 put their differences behind them in favor of forming an effective government
 for the country. germany did not have an enduring democratic tradition, and
 their parliamentary system lacked effective center parties that favored the
 interests of the majority of the population. instead what they had was a
 number of small parties who were unable to put aside their own specific
 objectives in order to combine against the nazis, who were out to end the
 democratic process. in fact, part of the problem was that some of the other
 parties with substantial representation, like the communists, were also
 out to end the democratic process, but with different results in mind, and
 generally didn't mind seeing parliamentary democracy go under.
 
 germany had already had a non-nazi chancellor with a majority coalition
 for five months while the nazis had been the largest reichstag party, and
 there certainly was no danger of a revolution in favor of the nazis.
 if anything the nazis were starting to get desperate because they had failed
 to get enough support to make hitler president and their popular vote had
 begun to decline.
 
 hitler was not hindenburg's first choice to be chancellor, not even his
 second choice. first, von papen had been chancellor since june 1932. after
 the november election when the nazis *lost* seats, hindenburg first prevailed
 on von papen to remain as chancellor. but there were intrigues behind his back
 and support for him was lacking. so then hindenburg turned to von schleicher,
 who became chancellor for two months. eventually he too was unable to hold
 together a working coalition of parties to oppose the nazis, who refused to
 participate in any government that was not led by a nazi chancellor. some of
 the nazi leadership, particularly gregor strasser who was the #2 man in the
 party at the time, wanted to participate in a coalition government. but others,
 knowing the party's support was waning, figured that their best hope to gain
 power lay in undermining the democratic process. nevertheless, the country
 was governed for seven months by chancellors who were not nazis, even though
 the nazis were the largest reichstag party. the failure of these men to
 achieve a working coalition was due to the inability of their coalition
 parties to work together.
 
 here's how william shirer puts it in _the rise and fall of the third reich_:
 
    the cardinal error of the germans who opposed nazism was their
    failure to unite against it. at the crest of their popular strength,
    in july 1932, the national socialists had attained but 37 percent of
    the vote. but the 63 percent of the german people who expressed their
    opposition to hitler were much too divided and shortsighted to combine
    against a common danger which they must have known would overwhelm
    them unless they united, however temporarily, to stamp it out.
 
 true, the german people supported hitler after he became chancellor. but
 that doesn't change the fact that there was not overwhelming support for him
 *before* he was in power. the german people were not crying out for hitler to
 take over, no matter how bad economic conditions were. the leftist parties
 (socialists/communists) probably had more support in total than the nazis.
 hitler used the fact that others were passively or actively willing to see
 the government paralyzed as a means to taking it over.
 
 -----
 eric smith
 erics@netcom.com
 erics@infoserv.com
 ci$: 70262,3610
 
 