
 
 
 	     	  
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 ______________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                             april 13, 1993     
 
 	     
                       remarks by the president,
                secretary of education richard riley and
                    secretary of labor robert reich  in 
                 goals 2000 satellite town hall meeting
 	     
                      chamber of commerce building
                            washington, d.c.   
 
 
 
 8:30 p.m. edt
 	     
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  good evening and welcome to all of you 
 in the thousands of communities around the country that are taking 
 part in this satellite town meeting for the month of april.
 	     
 	     you know, today is april 13th.  in 1743, thomas 
 jefferson was born, 250 years ago.  i think that's appropriate to 
 mention at the beginning of this meeting because since that time he 
 has been, of course, a person who has been one that we've all 
 followed in terms of our democracy and the importance of education 
 here in this great country.  the success of our democracy according 
 to jefferson really depends upon the success of our educational 
 system.
 	     
 	     his philosophy of government, his belief in the 
 importance of education is also very meaningful to our special guest 
 here this evening.  tonight we're so pleased to have with us 
 president clinton.  he's come over from the white house to join us in 
 the chamber of commerce studios.  
 	     
 	     mr. president, it's good to have you.  we thank you for 
 taking the time to visit with these communities here on the satellite 
 network and we welcome you here this evening.
 	     
 	     also we have with us secretary of labor robert reich.  
 and, bob, it's certainly pleasant to have you with us this evening 
 also.
 	     
 	     i have some questions for our two guests, and i'm sure 
 many of you do, too.  so please call us if there's something that 
 you'd like to ask.  the number is 1/800/368-5781 or 5782.  in 
 washington, d.c. the number is 202/463-3170 or 3171.
 	     
 	     i believe the president has a few words that he might 
 want to share with us.  and, mr. president, i'll ask you to do that 
 at this time.  it's great to have you.
 	     
 	     the president:  thank you very much, mr. secretary.
 	     
 	     i'm glad to be here with my friends, dick riley and bob 
 reich -- also members of my cabinet -- at the headquarters of the 
 chamber of commerce to support the effort that the chamber is making, 
 along with its center for work force preparation, to help to examine 
 tonight the whole critical question of how to move our young people 
 from school to the work place.
 	     
 	     i want to compliment the chamber on all their efforts, 
 recognizing that without an educated work force we can't grow this 
 economy or remain competitive, and recognizing that we all have to 
 work together -- business and government, labor and educators -- to 
 make things happen.
 	     
 	     this satellite town meeting is a good example of that 
 kind of working together.  and if you'll forgive me a little home 
 state pride, i want to say a special word of thanks to the wal-mart 
 corporation, headquartered in bentonville, arkansas, for providing 
 several hundred of the sites for this town meeting tonight.  i 
 appreciate that a lot, as well as the sites that are provided for all 
 the rest of you.
 	     
 	     i have tried as hard as i could to move toward 
 constructive change for this country.  secretary riley talked about 
 this being thomas jefferson's 250th birthday.  if thomas jefferson 
 believed in anything, he believed in these three things:  first, in 
 education; second, in real personal liberty, freedom of religion, 
 freedom of speech, freedom of association, freedom of the press; and 
 third, in the absolute imperative of changing as times change.  
 	     
 	     if you go to the jefferson memorial here in this 
 beautiful city, which is now bedecked with all of its wonderful 
 cherry blossoms, you will see jefferson saying that we have to change 
 with changing times.
 	     
 	     for us here in america, that means reducing our deficit 
 and increasing our investment and putting our people first so that we 
 can compete in the world.  we're here to talk about that tonight --
 about what we can do to educate and train our people better.  unless 
 we do that, none of the efforts that all the rest of us make in 
 government, even to bring the budget into balance, even to increase 
 our investment in other things which will grow jobs, will last in the 
 long run.
 	     
 	     we also have to have people who can carry their load.  
 and in a world where the average young person will change jobs seven 
 or eight times in a lifetime, that begins with the education system 
 and continues into the work force where education must go on for a 
 lifetime.  it's not just important what you know, but what you can 
 learn.
 	     
 	     and if i might, i'd like to close just by emphasizing 
 we're doing our best to try to have the most innovative partnership 
 between the labor department and the education department and the 
 private sector to build a good school-to-work transition.  and we're 
 trying to get off to a good start this summer with a program that 
 would create more than 700,000 new summer jobs, including many 
 thousands that have a strong education component so our young people 
 can be learning and working at the same time.
 	     
 	     dick, i think i ought to stop there.  that's a good 
 place we can begin, i think, the discussion.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  thank you so much, mr. president.
 	     
 	     each month we get together and talk about ways that all 
 citizens can work towards reaching the national education goals.  and 
 tonight, we'll focus on goal five, and how communities such as yours 
 can prepare students for this world of work.
 	     
 	     this week, the education department and the labor 
 department are hosting a conference here in washington, d.c. called 
 summer challenge, a program of work and learning, to america's youth.  
 the aim is to use some special funds from president clinton's 
 proposed economic stimulus package to provide educationally-enriched 
 jobs and summer school programs for young people in disadvantaged 
 areas of the country.  
 	     
 	     mr. president, let's talk a minute -- you alluded to it 
 somewhat -- about the  summer youth challenge.  your program calls 
 for more educational enrichment in the summer jobs.  and why in your 
 words is that so important?
 	     
 	     the president:  i think it's important for two reasons.  
 first of all, a lot of the young people we're trying to reach may 
 have had trouble adjusting to school and learning.  and while we want 
 them to have a good experience with a real job, we also want them to 
 continue to learn during the summer because we know from a lot of 
 research that a lot of kids that have trouble learning in school may 
 forget as much as 30 percent of what they learned the previous year 
 over the summertime.  and that is a very unproductive thing for 
 schools to have to take up a lot of time teaching what they already 
 taught before.
 	     
 	     secondly, we want to help these young people progress, 
 not only in terms of work, but in terms of learning.  we want to 
 abolish the artificial dividing line between what is work and what is 
 learning because we think that the best and most productive workers 
 will have to be lifetime learners.  and we think that this experience 
 could maybe drive that point home and prepare these young people to 
 succeed in school, or at work, or in college as they go on.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  well, i think the fact that these are 
 disadvantaged kids -- that gap, that lag you mentioned as they go 
 into the next year, is really even greater.  
 	     
 	     secretary reich, of course, you have training programs 
 throughout the year.  and i wonder is you have any comment about this 
 educational component of training.
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  well, what we've learned, mr. 
 secretary, is that for many young people, whether it's for the summer 
 or for the year, actually on-the-job work experience combined with 
 education is one of the best ways of learning.  many young people, 
 for example, have a lot -- they have a difficult time learning 
 geometry.  but when they actually are there building something or 
 working on something, and they can see the exact and direct 
 application of geometry, they understand what it's used for.  and a 
 lot of young people -- just that sense of connection between 
 education and the world of work is terribly, terribly important.  
 it's important during the summer, but it's important for a lot of 
 young people even beyond the summer.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  thank you.  
 	     
 	     mr. president, you've called for a youth apprenticeship 
 program, school-to-work transition.  and i wonder if you would tell 
 us a little bit about your concept of that and how you see it 
 developing.
 	     
 	     the president:  well, first of all, let's talk about why 
 it's important.  most new jobs that will be created in this decade 
 will not require a four-year college degree, but most of them will 
 require some learning and skills that go well beyond what most people 
 get in a high school diploma.  
 	     
 	     if you look at the last 10 years, the average salaries 
 of young people that had at least two years of good post-high school 
 education was a good salary that went up over the decade.  the young 
 people who had less than that tended to have lower wages that did not 
 go up, and in many cases in real terms fell over the decade, because 
 they weren't productive, they weren't more valuable to their 
 employers.
 	     
 	     so we think america has a big economic interest in 
 trying to ensure that all the young people who get out of high school 
 but don't go on to college make a transition to work, which includes 
 two years of further training either in a community college, a 
 vocational setting, or perhaps on the job.  and what i have done in 
 this budget, as you know, is to give you and secretary reich some 
 funds and some incentives to try to work in partnership with states 
 and with the private sector to build these programs state-by-state in 
 a way that would be customized essentially by the business community, 
 based on the needs of the economy in any given area.  it could 
 revolutionize long-term the quality of the american work force and 
 the earnings of american workers.
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  i should add, mr. president -- i think 
 you know this from your experience in arkansas -- and many of the 
 people watching this program -- that the business community and 
 educators, labor groups are already in many of our communities, many 
 of our states, building a school-to-work transition program.  in 
 fact, there's an awful lot of ferment, a lot of excitement.  the 
 people watching this program probably are the ones who are most 
 directly involved in that.  and more power to them.  secretary riley 
 and i are going to do everything we can to build on the successes 
 already out there.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  bob, we're going to be talking tonight 
 about youth apprenticeship and tech prep, the co-op learning  
 career academies.  and what features all those programs that deal 
 with this subject -- what are some of the features that every one of 
 these school-to-work programs might have that   are important?
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  well, one thing that we've seen -- and 
 you and i have been working at this for a long time, and you much 
 longer than i -- we've seen that active involvement of the business 
 community is absolutely essential.  and i'm so delighted that we're 
 doing this in the headquarters of the chamber of commerce.  the 
 chamber of commerce of the united states is committed to doing these 
 kinds of programs -- training, education, retraining -- and we've 
 aimed to work very closely with the chamber.
 	     
 	     the business community is going to be actively engaged 
 in developing almost an audit of the kind of jobs that are needed and 
 helping the educators, community colleges, technical institutions 
 develop curricula that are relevant for the jobs of the future.
 	     
 	     communities have got to come together.  i mean, this is 
 one of the most important things.  you've got to have all of these 
 players in a community come together and work together and cooperate 
 together.  you know, too often we have the educators over here and 
 the business leaders over here, labor groups over here and everybody 
 is talking, but they're not really working together in a common 
 strategy.
 	     
 	     and the third and final ingredient i would say, dick, 
 would be a commitment to excellence -- a commitment both to academic 
 excellence and also to skills development excellence.  this is not a 
 tracking program we're talking about for kids who are not going to 
 make it.  this is a program that every young person ought to be 
 eligible for.  if they want to go on beyond that to four-year 
 college, that's fine.  that ought to be permissible.  but we're 
 talking about the foundation of learning about jobs, the foundation 
 skills for on-the-job learning.
 	     
 	     and again, those are the critical components.  it's 
 already being done.
 	     
 	     the president:  i think -- if i might just interject one 
 point based on my personal experience at home -- the business 
 community has a critical role to play, not simply in saying here are 
 the job skills that are needed and here's what ought to be taught, 
 but also in monitoring that excellence.  if you have the right sort 
 of partnership there, the people who are paying the taxes and who are 
 going to then be hiring the workers are not going to permit the 
 second-rate programs to survive if they have any way to shape and 
 influence them.  so i think that's very important.
 	     
 	     and when we try to, if you will, fill in the blanks at 
 the federal level, trying to set some standards and provide some 
 funds, one of the things that we want to be sure and do is to make 
 sure that the employer has a heavy amount of influence over the 
 quality of these programs, because that's really what's going to 
 determine whether the whole thing is worthwhile.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  that's great.  we've been talking, of 
 course, about school-to-work and also the jobs and economic recovery 
 program for this summer and fall.  but let's talk just a moment about 
 long-term school reform.  it's something especially close to me.  mr. 
 president, i wonder if you would give us some of your ideas for the 
 communities out here on goals 2000 legislation that i think will be 
 coming forth before too long.
 	     
 	     the president:  well, as you know, back when you and i 
 were both governors, we spent a lot of time working on our public 
 schools and we tried to be very candid with our people in saying that 
 a lot of these things were going to take some time to materialize.  
 	     
 	     i had a hand in writing the national education goals 
 that the governors drafted, along with representatives of president 
 bush's administration back in 1989.  and what we're going to try to 
 do this year with your leadership is to introduce legislation in 
 congress that will actually define the things that the national 
 government ought to do to try to help the local schools and the 
 children of this country and the adult learners, too, meet those 
 goals -- making sure that when -- by 2000, people show up for school 
 ready to learn; that we get a 90 percent on-time high school 
 graduation rate; that children at the 4th, 8th, and 12th grades are 
 confident in the subjects they're supposed to know; that they are 
 second to none in math and science; that are schools are safe, 
 disciplined, and drug-free.  and, of course, the fifth goal --i took 
 them out of line to say this the last -- is that we have a system of 
 life-long learning in this country.
 	     
 	     and each one of those goals there's a national role, a 
 state role, a school role, school district role, and a private sector 
 role.  and what you've attempted to do in this bill you're going to 
 introduce with me in the next few weeks is to define what our job is; 
 and then to give the rest of america a way of defining what their job 
 is and seeing whether we're actually meeting the standards of quality 
 that we need to meet.
 	     
 	     it's very exciting.  so far as i know, nothing quite 
 like it has ever been done in the form of federal legislation before.  
 not mandating and telling people what they have to do with their 
 money, but actually setting up a framework for excellence and 
 partnerships so that we can do our job.  i'm really excited about it.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  well, i am, too.  and i think really 
 it will be an entirely new role for the federal government in terms 
 of its relationship with states, serving as a partner really to 
 support and facilitate and to help out in these education reform 
 efforts, all driven by high standards.  that's the point.
 	     
 	     bob, let me ask you one question, and then we'll get to 
 the telephone calls.  it's about the same subject.  we have, of 
 course, skills standards that are going to be part of goals 2000, and 
 i wonder if you would comment on that.
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  well, you know, we have 75 percent of 
 our young people who don't graduate from college.  very often they 
 don't have very many alternatives.  they do have a wonderful system 
 of community colleges and technical institutions, but if we had 
 national skill standards to which they could aspire and which 
 employers would understand as a national credential, many of these 
 young people would actually find that they were much more eligible 
 for jobs.
 	     
 	     everybody doesn't have to go to college.  other 
 countries you have smaller proportions of their population going to 
 college, but you have a whole level of people who have certain 
 technical, preprofessional skills.  we can do it in this country.  if 
 you don't go to four-year college you're not a loser.  and we want to 
 develop those national skill standards.  we're going to be working 
 with the states, with the education department, with a lot of private 
 industry in developing those standards.  and i think they will be the 
 kinds of things that enable our vocational and technical and other 
 institutions to rally around, as well as our business community.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  well, that's great.  why don't we go 
 ahead and go to the telephone.  we have a call, i see -- mayor bruce 
 todd of austin, texas.
 	     
 	     q	  yes, mr. president and mr. secretary reich and 
 riley, we certainly appreciate the opportunity to join you today.  we 
 have some dedicated professionals and volunteers here in austin who 
 have heard what you have said and are very appreciative.  let me 
 simply say, amen to some of the comments made already.  we agree with 
 much of the tone that the clinton administration has taken, and are 
 very supportive.  
 	     
 	     we have been successful here in austin of tripling our 
 summer employment program over the last four years.  we expect to 
 have over 2,000 employed this year in the summertime; perhaps as much 
 as 3,500 with the federal assistance.  
 	     
 	     much of the question that we had designed you have 
 answered in your opening comments, so we must be thinking alike.  but 
 the question essentially involved what initiatives after labor day 
 would be appropriate.  we know summertime is important.  year-round 
 is even more important.  and what kind of initiatives at the federal 
 level might be proposed to meet the needs of the youth on a year-
 round basis?  and perhaps more importantly, how can families and the 
 local community be more involved using the federal initiative? that's 
 something that we believe is very important to success in this 
 effort.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  mr. president.
 	     
 	     the president:  i think i'll give everybody a chance to 
 answer the question, bruce, but let me first thank you for calling, 
 and thank you for all the great work that you're doing in austin.  
 i've seen some of it and i've always been very impressed.  
 	     
 	     first, with regard to the summer program, we hope we can 
 structure it in a way that will enable us to continue the summer 
 program and that will move a lot of these young people back into 
 schools under circumstances that might allow them to do some work in 
 the private sector, too.  we hope that -- secretary reich is going to 
 try to set up a system where we create a lot of private sector jobs 
 to be matched with the public sector jobs this summer.  and we're 
 working on that.
 	     
 	     secondly, in the program that i have presented to the 
 congress over the next five years, what we are attempting to do is to 
 build in an amount of investment that's quite substantial for job 
 training programs, for school-to-work programs, all of which give 
 heavy, heavy weight to local community input -- just the question you 
 asked -- but do provide some federal investment dollars, which we 
 hope you can put with local dollars to keep people working and being 
 trained on a year-round basis.
 	     
 	     and i will say again, to echo what secretary reich said 
 a moment ago, to try to break down the barrier between what is seen 
 as work and what is seen as learning.  an awful lot of young people 
 actually have quite high iqs, but actually learn so much better when 
 they're doing than when they're reading or just listening.  so we 
 hope that the community involvement part of it will be permanent, and 
 we hope that if the whole budget passes -- and we do have 200 budget 
 cuts and more than 200, actually, in the budget -- and some revenue 
 raisers, and some new money for education and training, that we'll be 
 able to do just what you seem to want based on your question.
 	     
 	     bob, do you want to say anything?
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  well, you took most of the words out 
 of my mouth, mr. president, as usual.  but let me just add one thing, 
 and that is that one of the most important aspects of post-high 
 school for a lot of young people who are not going on to college, in 
 addition to the school-to-work program, simply is the availability of 
 jobs.  and we've got to get this economy moving again, obviously.  
 it's terribly important to get this recovery program, to get the 
 economy back on track.  that's sort of the prerequisite to everything 
 else.  if we don't get the economy back on track -- we have -- i 
 think this is the 16th -- correct me if i'm wrong, mr. president -- i 
 think is the 16th month we have had seven percent unemployment or 
 greater.  this is a jobless recovery.  a lot of those kids are going 
 to be getting out of school in june.  and even if we did everything 
 right, they would have a very, very hard time getting jobs.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  thank you both.  of course, goals 2000 
 will be a permanent, long-term thing that will certainly reach into 
 next year.  it will involve, if passed -- and we certainly hope it 
 will be -- action plans with every state where we can be working 
 together to reach for the goals in a number of different ways.  and 
 then the state, with all the various school districts, a very 
 important part of that will be citizen and parent involvement.  and i 
 think everybody will see a great energy out there, once we get that 
 moving.
 	     
 	     the next call is dr. harry heinemann, new york.  
 	     
 	     doctor?
 	     
 	     q	  good evening, mr. secretary.  it is a pleasure to 
 be on with you this evening.  as you may know, bridging the school 
 and work has been central to la guardia's educational program since 
 its inception in the 1970s, and that includes the college, the two 
 alternative high schools that operate on our campus, and the linkages 
 we have forged with the local schools.  we have found this to be an 
 extremely effective learning strategy.
 	     
 	     and over the years, we've come to believe that there are 
 several principles that are very important in bridging the school and 
 work.  and these include integrating theory in the classroom with 
 practice in the workplace, with providing all students early exposure 
 to careers, as well as providing opportunities for them to reflect 
 upon these experiences while they strengthen their skills; and 
 lastly, the critical role of the liberal arts, particularly in the 
 development of high performance competencies.  
 	     
 	     my question, then is:  how can the general education 
 faculty and the academic curriculum be more closely integrated with 
 transition to work experience?  and what mechanisms and strategies 
 can you suggest to achieve this integration?
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  well, thank you very much.  i think -- 
 and we'll get a response from you all on that, and very interesting 
 work going on there.  we're going to have three people, our next 
 guests on the program this evening, that will be some specialists   
 in that area that you're speaking, and i'll certainly pass that on to 
 them and we can discuss it later.
 	     
 	     you all care to comment -- any comments you might have?
 	     
 	     the president:  i'd just like to say, if i might, one 
 thing.  i want to reemphasize this and i don't think i'm being as 
 clear about it as i'd like, although i think at least one of the 
 people who will be on the second panel will be able to say it more 
 explicitly than i.  i think this whole concept of applied academics 
 is very important.  and i think that we have to basically abolish 
 what i consider to be a very artificial distinction between what is 
 vocational learning and what is academic learning.
 	     
 	     i think we should keep the liberal arts going.  i think 
 we should have a strong component for people who are in the 
 vocational program.
 	     
 	     secretary reich:  it seems to me that we also need to 
 rethink our entire tracking system, because a lot of these school and 
 work combinations are important for mainstream students.  they're 
 important for all students.  it's not just a special group of 
 students that needs them.
 	     
 	     some of the experiments that i've seen around the united 
 states -- dick, i'm sure you've seen them as well -- are mainstream 
 experiments.  they're mainstreaming all the students.  at 11th and 
 12th grades they're giving them a combined work and school experience 
 and then a transition program.  and again, the kids can either go on 
 to college if they want; they can go on to technical community; they 
 can go on to an entirely -- a large variety of possibilities and 
 career directions.
 	     
 	     but we have to get away from the stigmatizing that often 
 goes on with young people who simply are doing job-related or work-
 related work within the classroom, within our schools.
 	     
 	     secretary riley:  thank you, very much.  i think that's 
 going to be the last call that we have time for.  mr. president, i 
 think you've got to move on to another matter, and i want to thank 
 you and secretary reich for being here.  we appreciate your time and 
 your ideas, and it's been a tremendous help to us.  
 
                                  end9:00 p.m. edt
 
 
 
 