
 
 
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 _____________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                                  april 14, 1993
 
 
 
                             press briefing
                        by george stephanopoulos
 
 
                           the briefing room
 
 
 12:40 p.m. edt
 	     
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i guess i'm just prepared to take 
 questions today.
 	     
 	     q	  george, bob dole says that the clinton 
 administration's policy on bosnia is a failure and that he wants the 
 united states to take the lead in lifting the arms embargo so that 
 the bosnian muslims can defend themselves.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as you know, president clinton has 
 said that that suggestion is under active consideration.  obviously, 
 this is a tragic situation in bosnia.  and if the bosnian serbs don't 
 come to the negotiating table in a constructive way, we'll look 
 seriously at pressing for lifting the arms embargo.  in the meantime, 
 we're going to continue to press for a tough sanctions resolution in 
 the u.n.  we're going to continue to work on the serbs to come to the 
 negotiating table.  but the prospect of an arms embargo is something 
 the president certainly will consider if the serbs don't come to the 
 table.
 	     
 	     q	  how much longer are you going to give them to come 
 to the table, george?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're working on that right now.
 	     
 	     q	  it's been a long time.
 	     
 	     q	  on february 19th, the president mentioned the value 
 added tax in ohio.  and when he was asked about it later by 
 reporters, he said -- quote -- "that is a radical change in the tax 
 system of the united states.  it's something i think we may have to 
 look at in the years ahead."  questioned again about it later he 
 says, "it is not something that is now under consideration.  if we 
 start considering it, i'll tell you."  it wasn't a trial balloon or 
 anything, he said.  i was just discussing the tax response to a 
 question.  donna shalala, quoted in usa today this morning -- quote -
 - "certainly we're looking at a vat."  what's gone on?
 	     
 	     q	  the same with alice rivlin this morning.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the health care task force is 
 reviewing a number of options.  they haven't made any decisions yet.  
 and as i have said from this podium time and time again, we're not 
 going to comment on decisions that haven't been made.
 	     
 	     q	  but you have also said from this podium time and 
 time again --
 	     
 	     q	  wait a minute.  whoa, nelly.  whoa.  
 	     
 	     q	     that that was not under consideration.
 	     
 	     q	  yes.  clinton says, "it is not something that is 
 now under consideration."  is that no longer true?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe the working group, as ms. 
 shalala says, has looked at this prospect, but no decisions have been 
 made of any kind.
 	     
 	     q	  well, i know.  but he said he'd tell us about it if 
 it was ever under consideration.  i take it that now he is and he 
 didn't tell us about it or --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  did he say if it was under 
 consideration or if it was something to be proposed?
 	     
 	     q	  "if we start considering i'll tell you."
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  if it's something to be proposed?
 	     
 	     q	  "if we start considering it, i'll tell you."  
 that's a direct quote.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the task force has looked at a 
 number of different options.  they have not made any decisions yet.  
 the president has not made any decisions yet.  this is -- one of the 
 proposals under consideration by the task force was to go out and 
 cast as wide a net as possible for different ideas on how to reform 
 the health care system.  they have cast a very wide net.  they have 
 looked at hundreds of different proposals -- probably thousands of 
 different proposals.  but the president has not made any decisions.
 	     
 	     q	  well, is the president aware of their consideration 
 of this option?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if he's been briefed 
 on any preliminary conclusions or anything like that from the task 
 force on this specific proposal of any kind.  i don't know that 
 that's gotten to his level.  he started yesterday to go through with 
 the task force a very wide range of decisions and i don't believe 
 that that's been presented to him, no.
 	     
 	     q	  well, he's not relying on the usa today to tell him 
 what his task force is considering in the way of taxes.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, he's going through it in a very 
 deliberate fashion.  there are a number of decisions that have to be 
 made.  i don't know that this proposal has reached that decision-
 making point.
 	     
 	     q	  if this is still under consideration, that's a 
 change, at least from what we've been told by dee dee, i think about 
 three weeks ago or so.  she said, that is not an option, talking 
 about the -- had a big argument with somebody over this, so i 
 remember it specifically -- and said it not once, but twice.  is that 
 not the case?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i don't know if this has 
 been presented to the president as something that is being looked at 
 at some level in the task force.
 	     
 	     q	  it was ruled it out, though.  i mean, unlike other 
 options that you've kept in the mix, this one specifically was ruled 
 out.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, this is something that is 
 being looked at, but no decision has been made of any kind.  i mean, 
 it doesn't -- it's not necessarily material until you get to the 
 decision-making phase.  the working groups are looking at hundreds of 
 different options.
 	     
 	     q	  if it was ruled out before and it's not ruled out 
 now, then something has changed, george.  yes, no?
 	     
 	     q	  when a guy says in february --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the working groups are 
 looking at the widest possible range of options.
 	     
 	     q	  so something's changed.  they weren't looking at it 
 before; they're looking at it now.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i don't know if the working 
 groups have gotten to that point yet.  they are casting a very wide 
 net.
 	     
 	     q	  how was it possible that you and dee dee were able 
 to sell -- definitively rule it out as an option previously and now 
 are saying that, in fact, it is being considered?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, the working groups are 
 looking at a wide range of options.  they have not --
 	     
 	     q	  do you deny that you and dee dee ruled it -- flatly 
 ruled it out on several occasions in the past month?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't deny that -- i mean, those 
 are the president's words.  those are very clear.
 	     
 	     q	  subsequent to the president's words, do you deny 
 that within the last month you and dee dee have both publicly ruled 
 it out?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know about the timing.  i 
 think what we did was refer back to the president's words and say 
 they stand.
 	     
 	     q	  so don't they stand any longer?
 	     
 	     q	  march 25th, clinton said for the next four to five 
 years it was ruled out.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, those words -- the president 
 did say that in february.  the working groups are on a separate 
 track, and as i said, i don't believe --
 	     
 	     q	  separate from the president?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't believe this has been 
 presented to the president.
 	     
 	     q	  are they considering something that the president 
 --
 	     
 	     q	  has ruled out?
 	     
 	     q	     has ruled out?  i mean, will the president 
 consider a vat tax?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, the working groups have not 
 presented this to the president.  they have looked at a wide range of 
 options.  i suppose that if an argument is made, he will clearly 
 listen to it.  that does not mean he has decided to do it.
 	     
 	     q	  can we put this another way?  in his answer in 
 ohio, he looked at the vat in terms of restructuring the whole tax 
 system.  under those -- that was the circumstance that he said it 
 might be considered at some future point.  is that no longer the 
 case, or is that the only way that he can see a vat emerging?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i guess i'm not sure exactly what 
 you're asking.
 	     
 	     q	  he talked about the vat in the context of a 
 restructured tax system, not as a specific way to finance health 
 care, for example.
 	     
 	     q	  or anything else.
 	     
 	     q	  or anything else.
 	     
 	     q	  it was always in the context of substituting for 
 other taxes at a time of a dramatic overhaul of the whole tax system.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  right.
 	     
 	     q	  has that change, too?
 	     
 	     q	  is that still his view?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i haven't spoken about those 
 specific comments.  i think -- i can just go back to it -- are the 
 working groups -- have they examined the possibility of a vat?  yes, 
 they have.
 	     
 	     q	  certainly we're looking at a vat, she said.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they have examined the possibility 
 of a vat.  has it been presented to the president?  has he made a 
 decision?  no, he has not.
 	     
 	     q	  what kind of a deal do you have when you've got the 
 president's appointed task force, obviously not oblivious to his 
 ruling something out except in the context of some huge down the line 
 reform, goes ahead on its own and considers a tax which he has 
 specifically ruled out in any context other than much later, and then 
 goes ahead and announces that that's what they're looking at?  is the 
 president concerned about that sort of thing?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that the president's 
 concern is to make sure he gets the best health care proposal 
 possible.  he's concerned with making sure that they have the most 
 thorough process for examining all the possible alternatives, all the 
 different alternatives.  if a decision is made to go forward with 
 something like that it's certainly something the president will 
 explain and justify.  but no decision has been made along those 
 lines.
 	     
 	     q	  what does it mean exactly, though, when the 
 president rules something out?  does it mean it can get back on the 
 table later if a more persuasive argument is made?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's just -- that's indisputably 
 true.  if you -- but, at the same time, he has not ruled it in.  he 
 has not made a proposal.
 	     
 	     q	  what makes him open to it now when he wasn't open 
 to it before?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's certainly willing to listen to 
 the argument.
 	     
 	     q	  was he willing to listen to the argument for a 
 short-term tax this year, and he wasn't willing to listen to it in 
 chilicothe?  he's now open to it --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the context of his comments was 
 that it was not something -- he wanted to be clear that this is not 
 something he was proposing, not something he was floating.
 	     
 	     q	  not something he was considering.  those are his 
 words -- "it's not something that's now under consideration.  if we 
 start considering it, i'll tell you."  you're now acknowledging, are 
 you not, that it is under consideration and --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm acknowledging that the task 
 force has studied this proposal.  i am also stating that the 
 president has not made a decision on it.
 	     
 	     q	  but the door is open for the president to 
 reconsider including this as part of --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  obviously, the working groups are 
 looking at it.  again, but the president has not made a decision.
 	     
 	     q	  do you know if they will make a presentation on 
 behalf of the vat to him?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know that.  i assume that 
 if -- i don't know what stage they are it in proposing.  i don't know 
 that they're going to make the conclusion that this is something they 
 should present to him.  i know this is something the working groups 
 are looking at.
 	     
 	     q	  do you understand, george, that none of us are 
 asking these questions in context of a decision that the president 
 has made, only about what the president is considering?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i understand that, and i am 
 acknowledging that the working groups have examined the issue of a 
 vat.
 	     
 	     q	  and the president will consider it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i assume that he will consider the 
 argument if it is presented to him.
 	     
 	     q	  does that mean the president -- that working groups 
 think that when the president says no, he means maybe?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that means that the working 
 groups are trying to do the most thorough job possible.
 	     
 	     q	  george, can i ask you another question about 
 bosnia?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sure.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  no, he wants us to stay on this.
 	     
 	     q	  let's do gays in the military.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  no, he got out of that swamp.
 	     
 	     q	  i think we've gotten the bottom line on that vat.  
 reggie bartholomew, your special ambassador in belgrade, today said 
 that if the serbs do not accept the agreement that has been worked 
 out -- quote -- "we will do our part to pursue the lifting of the 
 arms embargo together with our allies."  that seems to go a bit 
 further than what you've just said --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sounds almost exactly what i just 
 said.
 	     
 	     q	  well, do you accept -- in other words, you accept 
 what reggie --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the president has said that 
 this is something that's under consideration.  it is something he 
 will consider if the current actions don't bring the serbs to the 
 table.
 	     
 	     q	  isn't there some kind of timetable here?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, there is a timetable.  there's 
 going to be a vote on the u.n. resolution in about 10 days.
 	     
 	     q	  that's on sanctions, that's on tightening the 
 sanctions.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's right, that's sanctions.  
 and we believe that that will ratchet up the pressure, and we hope 
 that that will bring the serbs to the table.  as you know, mr. 
 bartholomew also met with mr. churkin of russia, and they are also 
 working on ways to bring the serbs to the table.  we will continue to 
 pressure them in many different ways and this is one possible option 
 as well.
 	     
 	     q	  the question is whether there's a timetable for 
 consideration or a vote on a decision on lifting the arms embargo, 
 not the sanctions.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the next vote in the u.n. is on 
 sanctions.  as far as i know, there are no votes scheduled on lifting 
 the arms embargo.  but it is something that we have discussed both 
 internally and with our allies.
 	     
 	     q	  why did reggie bartholomew tell the serbs that the 
 u.s. would do that?  what was the point of his telling them that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, clearly, i mean, this is 
 something that's under consideration, and this is something that we 
 take quite seriously if they do not come to the table.  they should 
 know the consequences of failing to come to the table.
 	     
 	     q	  have they been given a deadline?
 	     
 	     q	  warren christopher has been saying the same thing 
 and it hasn't seemed to change the serbs' behavior in the least.  why 
 should the serbs take any heed of a threat to lift the arms embargo 
 when so far everything that's been done has had no effect on the 
 fighting in bosnia?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i just don't accept the premise of 
 your question.  it has had an effect; the embargo is having an 
 effect.  
 	     
 	     q	  what effect?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  if the serbians choose not to heed 
 our warnings, then they will face the consequences.
 	     
 	     q	  what effect has it had in bosnia?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the effect that it has had on 
 the serbians, it has tightened up -- they are not getting their 
 shipments through.  we can brief more fully --
 	     
 	     q	  in bosnia, george.  in bosnia what effect has it 
 had?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, it's hard to say if it's 
 stopped the aggression to date.  that is why we're continuing to 
 press for the serbians to stop.  but we believe that over time we 
 will continue to weaken the serbs and that will have   an effect.  
 i'm not saying it's going to happen overnight; it clearly hasn't 
 happened overnight.  but we believe that over time the sanctions can 
 weaken the serbs.  if it fails to work and if the serbs fail to come 
 to the negotiating table, we'll move forward with the embargo.
 	     
 	     q	  isn't there a working deadline, george, of the 24th 
 -- the same date as the u.n. -- the scheduled u.n. vote?  hasn't the 
 united states said, along with many of the other nato allies, that if 
 the serbs aren't willing to sign on to the peace accord by then, that 
 we'll seek -- haven't we said that we will seek --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we've said continually we're going 
 to --
 	     
 	     q	  but on that deadline?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't have a specific date, but 
 we're going to move forward with the resolution, the u.n. resolution, 
 by around that time.  and if that fails to take effect, if that fails 
 to bring the serbs to the table, we will clearly consider other 
 actions.
 	     
 	     q	  isn't this awfully incremental?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're taking a step-by-step 
 approach.  we're ratcheting up the pressure and we're going to 
 continue to do that.
 	     
 	     q	  is there a possibility, george, that by the time 
 all these incremental steps are taken the serbs will have achieved 
 their goals and then what's the purpose?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think the purpose is to get the 
 serbs to stop the aggression.  we are pursuing that goal on many 
 different fronts.  we are pursuing it through the u.n.; we're 
 pursuing it through direct talks; we are pursuing it through 
 tightening the sanctions.  and we will consider lifting the arms 
 embargo.  we are turning the screws up on the serbs and we will 
 continue to do that.
 	     
 	     q	  but if the efforts have been unsuccessful in 
 getting the serbs to stop the aggression how effective will any 
 campaign be to have the serbs give back what they've gained?  i mean, 
 once they're entrenched --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i can't speculate on that.  we're 
 going to continue to press for them to come to the table now.  we're 
 going to continue to find ways to stop the aggression.  but i can't 
 see into the future.
 	     
 	     q	  george, on the stimulus package, house republicans 
 say they're going to hold a series of town meetings on saturday to 
 try and explain the details of your package.  they cite polls which 
 show that the more people learn about it, the less they like it.  
 what's your strategy to counter that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the strategy we have is the one 
 we're going to continue.  as you saw, the president today pointed up 
 the very real benefits of the summer jobs program that this package 
 will provide:  700,000 new summer jobs this summer for kids in inner 
 cities and suburbs to do productive work.  we are also going to point 
 out the benefits of the highway money, the investments in highways.  
 we're going to point up the benefits of immunization.  we're going to 
 point up the benefits of head start.  we are going to say that the 
 republicans have a choice:  they can take action to create jobs or 
 they can perpetuate the gridlock of the last four years. 
 	     
 	     q	  does it concern you, though, that the house now, 
 the house republicans are after you as well as the senate?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the house republicans voted against 
 it before.  they made a mistake then; they're making a mistake now.
 	     
 	     q	  george, does it strike anybody in the 
 administration that it's a bit strong to describe, as the president 
 did this morning, the summer jobs program as -- quote -- "a 
 reaffirmation of a promise of america"?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not at all.  i think it's the 
 promise of america to give kids a chance to reach their full 
 potential. 
 	     
 	     q	  government-funded jobs?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  to give people a chance to work?  
 absolutely.  that is the promise of america.
 	     
 	     q	  i want to follow up on something i asked yesterday 
 -- where does 700,000 summer jobs, where does that figure come from?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that is on top of.  i did look at 
 it.  there are currently 600,000 summer jobs in the pipeline.  this 
 will be on top of the 600,000, so it will be a total of 1.3 million.
 	     
 	     q	  the 700,000 would be created by the stimulus 
 package?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  where does that number come from?  because we've 
 been told all along that the stimulus package would create 500,000 
 new jobs.  and according to panetta, that breaks down to something 
 like 200,000 full-time jobs and 150,000 summer jobs.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, but the summer -- that's when 
 you do their full-time equivalence.  i mean, 700,000 individuals will 
 receive jobs this summer.  when you calculate it for the full-time 
 job effect, you have to do -- i don't know what the exact formula is.
 	     
 	     q	  seven hundred thousand part-time jobs --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  -- 150,000 or --
 	     
 	     q	  one to four because it's three months.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  thank you.
 	     
 	     q	  can i follow up on that?  did the president 
 misspeak this morning when he said that some of the government money 
 for these summer jobs will pay for private -- for kids to work in the 
 private sector?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not necessarily.  i mean, i think 
 that there will be grants available.  that's one of the ways that you 
 pay for the jobs.  at the same time, he's also issued a challenge to 
 the private sector to hire kids on their own as well.  
 	     
 	     q	  tax dollars, for instance, would pay for kids to 
 work at time-warner?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think the time-warner is actually 
 somebody coming forward and actually doing a grant.  that's going to 
 be the bulk of it.  there could be isolated instances, though, where 
 there would be grants to businesses.
 	     
 	     q	  has the president spoken with any senate 
 republicans this week?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  
 no, but there's been a lot of contact with senate republicans in the 
 white house.
 	     
 	     q	  at a lower level.  but the president hasn't?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president has not, no.
 	     
 	     q	  getting any closer to get the votes?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're continuing to work on it. 
 	     
 	     q	  anybody leaning your way?
 	     
 	     q	  on haiti, the new york times seems to be reporting 
 something of a breakthrough in aristide's attitude towards the coup 
 leaders.  can you confirm that there has been this change, and what 
 impact will it have on the process?  and what did pezzullo have to 
 say yesterday in his report?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  pezzullo did brief the principals.  
 i can't confirm what's actually happening in the talks.  i would 
 leave that to the negotiators themselves.  but mr. caputo has 
 returned to haiti.  we have received a briefing here at the white 
 house from ambassador pezzullo.  and as we have said time and time 
 again, we believe that assurances of security are important to a 
 final resolution to a broader political settlement.
 	     
 	     q	  george, yesterday you offered some selective 
 breakdowns of how the stimulus would impact some states and cities.  
 can we get a complete breakdown by state of how these jobs would be 
 impacted?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think we have it for most states, 
 yes.  and i think we can get it out.
 	     
 	     q	  could you make that generally available?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe we can.
 	     
 	     q	  and could you do it by the component of the 
 stimulus?  in other words --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if we can do -- i know 
 that we can do it by summer jobs and other jobs.  i don't know how 
 deeply it can be broken down.  but clearly, we can break it down into 
 summer jobs and other jobs.
 	     
 	     q	  and can i follow up?  is this the information that 
 jeff eller and the rest of the white house is using in the ads in the 
 states?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if they're ads, but 
 they're press releases.
 	     
 	     q	  can you describe what those press releases contain?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  all we're doing is pointing out the 
 benefits of this package to various states.  for instance, i know 
 that today senator dole is heading up to vermont and new hampshire.  
 and i would point out that the stimulus package, the jobs package 
 creates 1,000 jobs in vermont.  it creates 2,000 jobs in new 
 hampshire.  and the people of those states should remind him that 
 this is important. 
 	     
 	     q	  where are the releases going?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they go to the states.
 	     
 	     q	  to whom?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we can get them.  it's no problem.
 	     
 	     q	  can we get it?
 	     
 	     q	  why don't you put them out here as well?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think we can.
 	     
 	     q	  this afternoon?  would that be possible?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'll have to check.  i don't know.  
 but as soon as we can.
 	     
 	     q	  are you focusing these press releases on states 
 where there are moderate or pragmatic republican senators?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think we're trying to get as many 
 as we can.  it's actually quite difficult to pull this together and 
 we're doing our best.  we're putting them out as we get them.
 	     
 	     q	  why are you so closely tracking senator dole's 
 schedule?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i was just following it. 
 	     
 	     q	  are press releases going along to states where he's 
 visiting?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure.  i think that 
 probably there are press releases going to vermont.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  will there be a man in a chicken suit waiting?  
 (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  george, as the president goes about the business of 
 defending what's in his stimulus package, he doesn't address what 
 seems to be the republicans' main point, that you're funding it with 
 deficit spending rather than "if it's so important, why not come up 
 with the funding for it" seems to be the republican argument.  and 
 how do you answer that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  what was answer is, we are paying 
 for it over time.  and if you look at our budget, we pay for this 
 package over time.  we believe right now the economy needs a jump-
 start for jobs.
 	     
 	     q	  you're not claiming, are you, that that doesn't add 
 to the deficit this year?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm saying we're paying for it over 
 time.  i didn't say that.
 	     
 	     q	  i know that, george.  but i mean, from the 
 beginning, the question -- we do have annual budgets and things --
 deficit spending will pay for that this year, will it not?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  this year they clearly will.  but 
 over time our budget fully pays for this program.
 	     
 	     q	  what you're saying is that there are savings that 
 would cover this if it were this year in future years?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely.  that's exactly what i 
 said.
 	     
 	     q	  i know that, but there is going to be outstanding 
 debt, it will add to the national debt from this year --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, we're reducing the deficit by 
 $500 billion -- $514 billion over the next four years.
 	     
 	     q	  you mean you're reducing it below what it would 
 have been?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  exactly.
 	     
 	     q	  in fact, you're adding a very large amount to the 
 national debt over the period of --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  but we're reducing it far more from 
 what it would have been.  that's true.  
 	     
 	     q	  washington-type reduction.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  you're getting to be a grumpy old man.
 	     
 	     q	  george, has any decision been made about the white 
 house or the president's participation in the gay rights march coming 
 up in a week and a half?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're working on the president's 
 schedule now.  i believe he's going to be at the senate democratic 
 retreat in jamestown that weekend.
 	     
 	     q	  will he address it by phone?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know about that.  it's a 
 little far out, but i believe he's going to be in the senate retreat.
 	     
 	     q	  so will he have the leaders in a day or two before 
 the speech?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.  i would expect that 
 at some point he would meet with the leaders of some of these groups.  
 i don't know the schedule on it, though.
 	     
 	     q	  will there be an aids czar appointed prior to or in 
 conjunction with the event?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm just not sure.
 	     
 	     q	  april 22nd is earth day.  what is the president 
 going to do to mark that, and is it the case that he is going to sign 
 the biodiversity treaty that day?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i know there's been some work on 
 the biodiversity treaty.  i don't know about signing it that day, but 
 i would expect he'll have a statement on earth day or right around 
 then.
 	     
 	     q	  where is the work on the biodiversity treaty?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'd have to check with katie 
 mcginty.  i just know that there's been some work done, but i don't 
 know exactly what.
 	     
 	     q	  when is earth day?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the 22nd, i think.
 	     
 	     q	  why is it you know that he is going to have a 
 statement on earth day but you don't know if he's going to have a 
 statement on the gay rights march?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i said i don't know if he's going 
 to meet or when he's going to meet.
 	     
 	     q	  do you have a statement on the gay rights march?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't, actually, no.  i wouldn't 
 be surprised if he did, though.
 	     
 	     q	  do you have some details on the miyazawa visit?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's a working visit on friday and 
 the president is looking forward to that in discussing a number of 
 issues including russian aid and the japanese stimulus package and 
 the trade issues between the two countries.
 	     
 	     q	  there was some expectations that a second aid 
 package to russia was going to be unveiled at the g-7 meeting and, if 
 i understand, it hasn't happened.  why is that or what's the status 
 on that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the g-7 meeting is still going on 
 and, as you know, secretaries bentsen and christopher have talked 
 about the outlines of a possible package.  but we're going to 
 continue to consult with congress and our g-7 allies on that.
 	     
 	     q?	    we will not then make any kind of announcement 
 during the two-day meeting?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the meeting's not over yet.  
 	     
 	     q	  is that when you're going to make one?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not ruling out the possibility.
 	     
 	     q	     the president's going to announce it tomorrow.
 	     
 	     q	  bentsen said that.
 	     
 	     q	  yes, bentsen said it would be tomorrow.
 	     
 	     q	  so did christopher.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'd have to look at that, but i 
 believe it is more likely that the announcement will come out of 
 tokyo.
 	     
 	     q	  george, has there been further consideration here 
 about going to -- sending the president out to los angeles?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know that there's -- it's 
 not something we've ruled out.  we don't have a date set for it.
 	     
 	     q	  george, you all have a position or do you support 
 immigration's plan to settle 4,000 iraqi prisoners in the united 
 states?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's the first i've heard of it.
 	     
 	     q	  george, there was a report today about the --
 	     
 	     q	  fortunately.  (laughter.) 
 	     
 	     q	     about the pace of appointments and says that 
 president clinton is behind president bush in the number of positions 
 that people have been nominated for.  are you going to speed up the 
 pace of nominations or where do you stand with it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we filled 814 of the president's 
 appointments.  and it's broken down -- we have 384 schedule c; 147 
 noncareer ses; 213 pas full-time.  i'm not sure what that means --
 (laughter) -- 70 pa full-time.  and this is about the same -- it's 
 about the same pace of president bush.  obviously, as you move along 
 farther, once you -- each level of appointment actually has a 
 multiplier effect and frees up far more appointments.  so we expect 
 the process to speed up.  but we're at the pace of bush.  obviously 
 we'd like to get these done as quickly as possible.  
 	     
 	     i would point out that the fbi background checks and the 
 background check is far more comprehensive and it takes more time 
 than our predecessors, and that is part of the holdup.  but we're 
 working on it.
 	     
 	     q	  is that because of nannygate?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's an awful big part of 
 it, yes.
 	     
 	     q	  in the story this morning, you were at 
 approximately the same pace as bush in making appointments, but way 
 behind in winning confirmations.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's where the background checks 
 comes into play.  that's the problem.
 	     
 	     q	  that's the background checks problem?  because i 
 mean, you have a democratic senate --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, that's not the -- you make the 
 appointments, and then it takes quite a bit of time to fill out all 
 the forms and have the background checks done.  that's exactly where 
 the problem is.
 	     
 	     q	  what's the president doing this afternoon, and 
 what's on the plan for tomorrow?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's got some meetings -- just 
 office meetings this afternoon for the most part, on a variety of 
 issues that -- probably a half-dozen different issues.  and then 
 he'll be -- tomorrow we'll have an event, probably again focused on 
 the stimulus and jobs package out of here at the white house.  and 
 friday is the miyazawa meeting.
 	     
 	     q	  will you be releasing his tax return tomorrow, 
 george?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  either tomorrow or friday.
 	     
 	     q	  is there going to be a pre-briefing regarding the 
 japanese prime minister's visit tomorrow?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know about tomorrow, but 
 we'll probably get something done, as we usually do, for these 
 visits.
 	     
 	     q	  was reverend jackson here this morning and do you 
 know what that was about?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he was here.  he met with a group 
 of us here at the white house, including mack mclarty.
 	     
 	     q	  who?
 	     
 	     q	  reverend jackson.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  reverend jackson.  mack mclarty, 
 me, gene sperling, bruce reed, jeff watson, mark gearan. 
 	     
 	     q	  talking about haiti?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we talked about general urban 
 policy.  he is about to go to los angeles.  he was just back from 
 mississippi, where we had a good victory last night; and he's going 
 on to los angeles.
 	     
 	     q	  did he request the meeting?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  actually, no.  he's in continual 
 contact with the president.  he had written a letter on a variety of 
 issues, and so we asked him to come in and talk about it.
 	     
 	     q	  george, dole is having a fundraiser for jeffords 
 tonight in vermont.  have you guys been  in contact with jeffords at 
 all on this?
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think there's been some contact, 
 sure.
 	     
 	     q	  can you tell us about the contacts?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure -- 
 	     
 	     q	  do you know who contacted him or what was said?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i know that howard paster talked to 
 him and they just has a general talk about the package.
 	     
 	     q	  and did he express his support for it now, or is he 
 --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i can't divulge the details of the 
 conversation, but there have been conversations.
 	     
 	     q	  the l.a. times is reporting that abortion --
 elective abortions is likely to be included in the basic health care 
 package.  is this something the president is considering?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again --
 	     
 	     q	  along with the vat?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's certainly something that's 
 been looked at, but no decisions have been made.
 	     
 	     q	  what was the question?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the l.a. times story on whether 
 abortions will be covered by the president's health plan.
 	     
 	     q	  did the president in his meeting -- did you in your 
 meeting with reverend jackson ask his advice, solicit his advice 
 about what kind of stance the white house should take in the wake of 
 the verdict in l.a.?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, we certainly talked about the 
 situation in los angeles and the long-term prospects for economic 
 development and other issues.
 	     
 	     q	  for instance, did you discuss whether it would be 
 helpful for the president to go there or not?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, we discussed a wide range of 
 issues related to los angeles.  that was certainly one of them.
 	     
 	     q	  letting you perhaps go out on the way you came in, 
 i need to go back to bosnia just for a second and ask --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, good.
 	     
 	     q	     your reaction to margaret thatcher's comments 
 that you're just sitting by and watching a massacre.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, we've been pushing very hard 
 on a number of fronts for more aggressive action.  we will continue 
 to do that.
 	     
 	     q	  can you tell us if you've made any progress in your 
 talks on the stimulus package getting a compromise?  i mean, we don't 
 have any feel except talks are ongoing.  have you talked to like 20 
 people or --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know the numbers.  we've 
 talked to several people and we've had wide-ranging sessions.  
 	     
 	     q	  anyone leaning your way?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i can't get into that.  we're just 
 going to keep working through tuesday.
 	     
 	     the press:  thank you.
 
                                  end                    1:10 p.m. edt
 	     
 #56-04/14
 	     
 
 
 
 