
 in article <1ql7tuinn8j8@minerva.cis.yale.edu> chaudhary-amar@yale.edu (amar chaudhary) writes:
 >
 >6.   hey, i think the beaded curtains add a lovely 60's-esque touch!
 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa!  run! run for your lives!
 
 
 >5.   look, canada, europe, and japan manage to provide health care for their
 >     citizens (and, yes, basic health is a human right which people are
 >     entitled to).  if these nations aren't capitalist enough for you, then
 >     i guess we've found something better than capitalism!  there is nothing
 >     sacred about the capitalist system, and if something, be it socialism
 >     or anything else, works better, then i say let capitalism die.
 
 then why are they in the process of systematically dismantling some of
 their socialistic health care systems through privitization of key components?
 
 >4.   make love, not war!
 
 if i hold a gun to your wife, would you respond the same way? i don't
 think so. while the age of aquarius may have hit the white house, the
 age of peace love and harmony hasn't hit in south central la nor has it
 hit in former yugoslavia. and as long as there are people in the world
 who would rather see me dead than thrive, i want the protection of a
 police force who will keep the peace so i *can* make love without being
 shot.
 
 >3.   contrary to popular belief, it is possible to be a male and a feminist
 >     at the same time.  to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity
 >     to a majority of the population is just plain wrong, and trying to force
 >     them into some sort of tradition role is even worse.  women certainly 
 >     have as much to offer this world as men, and the day that gender
 >     discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the revolutions of
 >     the past few centuries seem like reform bills.  i look forward to it.
 
 the ultimate statement for equal rights (something many of the feminazis
 have forgotten) is "i do not care if you are either a man or a woman,
 i do not care if you are black or white, i do not care if you are gay
 or straight." once you can honistly say "i do not care about color,
 race, or gender or sexual preference", then we will truly be on the
 right track.
 
 keep shoving differences in my face and then expect us all to get along?
 get real! so long as you try to make me care if you are black, female,
 or whatever, i am going to continue to balk. it's natural human behaviour.
 
 but the moment employers searching for employees, banks looking to lend
 money, and theclinton administration looking for appointees can honistly
 say "i do not care about your color, race, gender, or sexual preferences;
 i instend instead to treat you as a human being," crap like last year's
 riots will continue to happen.
 
 >1.   hey man, acadamia rules!!
 
 barf.
 
 you mean the same economic theorists who say things like "for the sake
 of convenience in mathematical modeling we will first assume there is
 no wealth creation" now get a crack at implementing their phd thesis in
 real life?
 
 go back to your textbooks on macroeconomic theory. look in the first chapter
 of that book, introducing the field of macroeconomic theory. right there
 in chapter 1, section 1, is a statement like the following:
 
 	"as it is difficult to predict and model wealth creation,
 	especially in an economy where wealth creation is inherently
 	the province of individuals who create new inventions and
 	discover new ideas, we will assume for the rest of this
 	book that there is no wealth creation.
 
 	"we do not assume the lack of weath creation in the real world,
 	however the mathematical modeling of such an inherently
 	unpredictable subject is impossible. even though we assume
 	no wealth creation, we do believe that for most mathematical
 	economic modeling such an assumption is reasonably valid
 	as it allows us to make predictions which then can be tested."
 
 so the guys who are running the store for clinton and company are now
 assuming that wealth creation does not exists. they are (borrowing an
 idea from the hitchhiker's guide) too advanced to think of these simple
 things.
 
 to be honist, i would rather have an engineer with years of experience
 building bridges design the next bridge, rather than a theoretical
 physicists with a freshly minted phd and no experience do the same job.
 
 					- bill woody
 
 normally i don't post (or even read most of the postings) in this newsgroup.
 if you would like to reply to this message and want me to see the reply,
 then i guess you will just have to reply directly to me.
 
 