
 dov bai-msi visitor (bai@msiadmin.cit.cornell.edu) wrote:
 : in article <c5fg7t.6at@exnet.co.uk> sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes:
 
 : >true, man did not invent the need for food, shelter, warmth and the ilk,
 : >but man did invent the property laws and the laws of trespass.   
 : but how do you think property is generated ? does it grow automatically
 : on trees when we wish so, or someone has to produce it ?
 
 some say it was generated by god or goddess; some say it was the result of
 the coalescence of billions of tons of interstellar debris.  in either case,
 the property of which xavier speaks has been around for millions of years.
 
 
 :     it all follows from the fact that mother nature does not
 : provide us automatically with our needs,
 
 oh?  when did she *stop*?  mother nature has been automatically providing
 us with her bounty ever since we crawled out of the primordial ooze.  it
 is not "produced": it produces itself, year after year.  last night, for
 example, i saw four deer crossing the road (pretty sight, too); in an
 earlier time, one of them would have been dinner.
 
 : there are 2 ways to go with produced things: the first is to 
 : _trade_ it with the the person(s) who produced it. 
 : the other one is to take it with a gun from the person who produced
 : it. the first way is the civilized method, the second is how savages
 : arrange their affairs.
 
 the american indians had no concept of ownership of property, and often
 freely gave of their supplies to neighboring tribes, trading food and
 clothing for weapons or services.  the native hawaiians, like their
 polynesian ancestors, also could not conceive of that idea, and shared
 many things with the other islanders.  in fact, "hi'ipoi", the hawaiian
 word for "cherish" means "sharing food".  the great mahele, in which
 the islands were divided up more-or-less evenly between the rich and
 the poor, was a white man's idea.  in africa, villagers will often
 share tools, crops, and clothing with other members of their own village
 and neighboring villages.  every anthropologist who has ever been to
 africa has at least one tale of the difficulties arising from the so-
 called "theft" of the scientists possessions -- two concepts of which,
 until the visitors came along, the natives had no understanding.
 
 these are the people we call "savages".
 
 on the other hand, car-jackings and muggings are up from last year.
 
 dov, before you make further comment on this thread, i think it would
 behoove you to study *all* of the facts.
 
 
 -garison
 