
 here is a press release from the reserve officers association.
 
  reserve officers say demographics ignored in nominations to
 close naval, marine reserve centers
  to: national desk, defense writer
  contact: herbert m. hart of the reserve officers association of
           the united states, 202-479-2258
 
    washington, april 13 /u.s. newswire/ -- the reserve officers
 association of the united states has alerted the defense base
 realignment and closure commission that the services failed to give
 sufficient weight to demographics in recommendations made to close
 56 naval and marine corps reserve centers.
    in letters to the closure commission and to all 86 members of
 congress with affected locations in their constituencies, including
 sen. sam nunn (d-ga.), chairman of the senate armed services
 committee, roa charged that the developers of the navy-marine list
 ignored demographics of the civilian population, particularly prior
 service personnel.
    roa's executive director, maj. gen. evan l. hultman, aus (ret.),
 suggested "concern that the only plausible alternative is that they
 are intentionally attempting to foreclose the naval reserve
 components from maintaining even today's relatively low level of
 participation in their parent service's total force of the future."
    he asked the commission "to remove from consideration all
 locations without sufficient and convincing demographic data to
 warrant approval of the requested action."
    "only a few of the 56 naval and marine corps reserve
 installations on this list are large enough to have a significant
 impact on the community, if closed," wrote hultman.  "the major
 issue is the cumulative impact of moving or closing such a large
 percentage of the existing locations."
    hultman reminded the commission, "the fact that the vast
 majority of the reserve installations on this list do not come
 close to meeting the minimal requirements for consideration in this
 process certainly supports the thesis" that these actions are
 simply an attempt to foreclose a substantial role for the navy and
 marine corps reserve.
    roa also noted "that at the end of the 1960s, when the number of
 naval reservists was approximately the same as today, there were 480
 naval reserve facilities.  if the navy recommendations are
 approved, there will be less than 200 naval reserve facilities."
    facilities on the list include seven naval air stations ranging
 from south weymouth, mass., to alameda, calif., 28 naval
 reserve centers in macon, ga., and parkersburg, w.va., to
 missoula and great falls. mont.  naval/marine corps reserve
 centers include four in san francisco, fort wayne, ind.,
 billings, mont., and abilene, texas.
    a major marine reserve center on the list is that at el
 toro, calif., plus six others.
  -30-
 -- 
 nigel allen, toronto, ontario, canada    ndallen@r-node.hub.org
 