
 
 
                          the white house
 
 
                   office of the press secretary
 
                                                                   
 for immediate release                             april 14, 1993
 
 
 
                   president names officials at 
            transportation, commerce, defense, and opic
 
 
 
 (washington, dc)    president clinton announced his intention 
 today to nominate albert herberger to be administrator of the 
 federal maritime administration, loretta dunn to be assistant 
 secretary of commerce for import administration, and christopher 
 finn to be executive vice president of the overseas private 
 investment corporation.  
 
      additionally, he has approved the appointments of joan yim 
 to be deputy administrator of the federal maritime 
 administration, alice maroni to be principal deputy comptroller 
 of the department of defense, and deborah castelman to be deputy 
 assistant secretary of defense for command, control, and 
 communications.
 
      "we are continuing to move forward with putting together a 
 government of excellent, diverse americans who share my 
 commitment to changing the way that washington works," said the 
 president.  "these six people i am naming today fit that bill."
 
      biographical sketches of the nominees are attached.
 
 
 
                                ###
 
                 biographical sketches of nominees
                           april 14, 1993
 
 
      albert herberger, a thirty-five year navy veteran who 
 retired with the rank of vice admiral, is the vice president of 
 the international planning and analysis center (ipac).  among the 
 positions he held during his naval service were deputy commander-
 in-chief of the u.s. transportation command, director of 
 logistics on staff for the atlantic fleet commander-in-chief, and 
 director of the military personnel policy division for the office 
 of naval operations.  a surface warfare expert and a merchant 
 marine officer with over eighteen years operational experience, 
 herberger is also vice chairman of the national defense 
 transportation association's sealift committee.  he is a graduate 
 of the u.s. merchant marine academy and the naval postgraduate 
 school.
 
      loretta dunn has served on the staff of the senate committee 
 on commerce, science, and transportation since 1979.  since 1983 
 she has been the committee's senior trade counsel, responsible 
 for drafting trade legislation and reports, planning and 
 conducting hearings, managing legislation on the senate floor and 
 in conferences with the house, overseeing a variety of executive 
 branch agencies, including the department of commerce.  she was 
 previously a staff counsel for the committee.  dunn holds a b.a. 
 in history from the university of kentucky, a j.d. from the 
 university of kentucky college of law, and an l.m. from the 
 georgetown university law center.
 
      christopher finn is the executive vice president of equities 
 for the american stock exchange.  previous positions he has held 
 have included senior vice president of the air and water 
 technologies corporation, chief of staff to senator daniel p. 
 moynihan, deputy commissioner of the new york state department of 
 economic development, and chief legislative aide to congressman 
 james r. jones.  finn is a graduate of harvard college.
 
      joan yim is a professional planner with over 17 years 
 experience in community based planning, policy analysis, project 
 design and management, inter-agency coordination and government 
 affairs.  from 1975-92, she was with the hawaii office of state 
 planning as a planner on issues relating to natural resource and 
 coastal zone management and public infrastructure financing, 
 among other issues. currently, she is supervising planner with 
 the honolulu firm of parsons brinckerhogg quade & douglas.  
 before going to work for the state, she was executive 
 neighborhood commission secretary for the city and county of 
 honolulu, and chair on the kaneohe community planning committee.  
 a democratic national committeewoman, yim holds a b.a. from 
 connecticut college and pursued graduate studies at the 
 university of hawaii.
 
                               (more)
 
 april 14, 1993
 page two
 
 
      alice maroni is a professional staff member of the house 
 armed services committee specializing in defense budget issues.   
 she previously worked as a national defense specialist in the 
 foreign affairs and national defense division of the 
 congressional research service, and as an international risk 
 analyst for rockwell international.  she has written extensively 
 on defense budget related topics.  maroni received her b.a. from 
 mount holyoke college, and an m.a. from the fletcher school of 
 law and diplomacy at tufts university.  she has also completed 
 the senior service program at the national war college and 
 harvard's program for senior executives in national and 
 international security.
 
      deborah castleman is currently on leave from rand, where she 
 is a space and defense policy analyst.  she was an advisor to the 
 clinton/gore campaign on space, science and technology, and 
 national security issues.  prior to joining rand in 1989, 
 castleman held engineering positions with the hughes space and 
 communications group, general dynamics, and electrac, inc.  she 
 served as an avionics technician in the air force from 1974-77.  
 castleman holds a b.s. in electrical and electronic engineering 
 from california state polytechnic university, m.s. in electrical 
 engineering from the california institute of technology, and m.a. 
 in international studies from claremont graduate school.
 
                                ###
 
 
 
 