
 
 
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 _________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                             april 14, 1993     
 
 	     
                        remarks by the president
                       at summer jobs conference
 
 	     	  
                             hyatt regency
                         crystal city, virginia  
 
 
 11:22 a.m. edt
 
 	     
 	     the president:  thank you very much.  the speech that 
 octavius gave says more than anything i will be able to say today 
 about why it's important to give all of our young people a chance to 
 get a work experience and to continue to learn, to merge the nature 
 of learning and work; why it's important to honor the efforts of 
 people like jerry levin and nancye combs and pat irving and all of 
 those who are here.  
 	     
 	     i want to thank the secretaries of labor and education 
 and all the people who work with them for sponsoring this; and my 
 good friend, governor wilder, for being here and for speaking; and 
 all of the business and local community leaders from the city and 
 county and state level from around america who are here. 
 	     
 	     this has been a pretty fun day.  (laughter.)  i loved 
 hearing the young people sing.  it was music to my ears because it is 
 their future that we are really struggling about.  (applause.)  a 
 year and a half ago i began the quest to seek the presidency because 
 i was concerned about their future.  because i believe that our 
 country, which had always been a beacon of hope for the young, had 
 too little opportunity, was too divided among ourselves across lines 
 of income and race and region and other ways, without a vision to 
 take us into the future.  
 	     
 	     i entered with the hope that together we could create 
 more opportunity and insist on much more responsibility from all of 
 our people.  but in the process we might recreate the best of 
 america's community, knowing that together we could always to more 
 than we could individually and that we might secure our future.
 	     
 	     all of you here today are committed to that.  the 1,000 
 jobs that jerry levin has committed time-warner to is symbolic of the 
 commitments made by many of the private sector people who are here, 
 and those who are around the country.  the work that nancye combs 
 does, and the successes of all the young people like those on this 
 stage, and especially the eloquent statement octavius jeffers -- all 
 those things show that together we know what we need to do, and we're 
 on the right track.
 	     
 	     last july when i was traveling across america's 
 heartland in my luxurious bus, i visited seneca high school in 
 louisville, kentucky.  and there i met young people and business 
 people who were participating in the louisville education and 
 employment partnership.  i saw what nancye combs talked about today.  
 i saw how the young people were making an extra effort to succeed 
 both in school and at work.  i saw, as i have seen many times in my 
 own state, the principle illustrated that octavius has talked about 
 -- that for millions of american young people it is really an 
 impediment to both their learning and their ability to be good 
 workers to draw a sharp dividing line between what is work and what 
 is learning.
 	     
 	     in the world in which we are living, the average young 
 person will change the nature of work seven or eight times in a 
 lifetime.  we must learn to merge the work world and the learning 
 world much better.  and we must determine that all of our young 
 people see the opportunities that some of them have had showcased 
 here today.  
 	     
 	     whether you're in business or in government or in 
 education, you know that we have a big job to do when it comes to 
 building a future that really, honestly includes opportunity for all 
 of our people.  there are still a lot of people who say, well, things 
 are pretty good here in washington and everything's fine; the best 
 thing we can do about this whole thing is nothing.  they all have 
 jobs.  (laughter.)  all the people who say that.  (applause.)  
 	     
 	     they all have health insurance.  they all have a pretty 
 good education.  and they all have a pretty secure knowledge that 
 they'll be okay no matter what happens.  i say that not to be either 
 political or unduly critical, but to point out that one of the great 
 challenges of this age for every advanced nation -- everyone -- is to 
 fully develop the capacities of all of its people, and then find work 
 for them to do.
 	     
 	     all the european countries have higher unemployment 
 rates than we do, but also stronger support systems for the 
 unemployed.  the japanese unemployment rate has been going up.  
 they're going to adopt a stimulus that, even if you count it in its 
 most rigorous terms, is three or four times bigger than the one that 
 i have proposed to create jobs. 
 	     
 	     in west germany alone, the unemployment rate is now 
 about as high as ours.  this is a big problem for advanced nations.  
 it costs a lot of money to add an extra employee, with a lot of 
 pressure from low-wage producers in other countries that are growing 
 their own economies and trying to provide new opportunity for their 
 people.  
 	     
 	     but it is especially important for america for two 
 reasons:  one is, we have a whole lot of folks who, unless we move 
 aggressively, will not have the education and skills we need to be 
 competitive and productive in a nation like this.  the second is, 
 even if we educate them all, if there aren't jobs they will be robbed 
 of the fruits of their educational labors.  people need to be able to 
 work in this country.  (applause.)
 	     
 	     we have always had some unemployment; and, indeed, some 
 of it is normal.  you've always got some people leaving jobs and 
 moving around the country and doing first one thing and another.  we 
 have now, at this moment in our history, the necessity for all big 
 organizations, including the government, to reexamine the way they 
 are organized and who ask whether there are too many people working 
 at some kinds of jobs.  but in the whole, we must still be able to 
 create jobs in a country like america, to provide people with the 
 chance to work.  
 	     
 	     it's going to be difficult for me to make the welfare 
 reform proposals that i will make to congress in the next couple of 
 months -- it's going to be hard for me to make those work if, at the 
 end of all this work, to get off welfare there isn't a job.  
 (applause.)
 	     
 	     so we have two tasks.  one is to develop the capacity of 
 the american people to perform without regard to race or income or 
 the circumstances of their birth.  the other is to make sure that 
 there are some opportunities for them to bring to bear for their 
 talent and to be rewarded with a paycheck.  it is a great challenge.  
 i do not pretend that all of the answers are simple.  but i know if 
 you want to ask the american people, all of them, to be more 
 responsible, if you want to recreate a sense of community in this 
 country that bridges the lines of race and income and region, you 
 have got to have opportunity in that mix. 
 	     
 	     a part of our vision for america has to be a future for 
 every young person in this country who's willing to play by the rules 
 and work hard and strive for the end of the rainbow.  there has to be 
 something at the end of that rainbow.  and that is what we are 
 basically here to talk about today:  what can we all do as partners, 
 recognizing none of us can do it alone, to develop the capacities of 
 our people to succeed wherever they live and whatever their 
 background.  and then, what can we do to make sure that there's 
 something there for them to do?
 
 	     the summer jobs program we're discussing today is an 
 integral part of that plan, because it will promote the values of 
 work and opportunity and fairness, community.  it will put the people 
 first, and it does have a partnership between the public and private 
 sector.
 	     
 	     i said when i addressed the united states congress in 
 february on this program that i would seek to create about 700,000 
 extra summer jobs from government sources and then challenge the 
 american business community to meet that target so that we can create  
 more than a million new summer jobs over and above what had been 
 created before.
 	     
 	     many, many people have responded to that challenge.  and 
 jerry is just a shining example of that which has been replicated in 
 this room and around the country -- people who are going to do more 
 than they otherwise would in the private sector to give young people 
 a work experience.  and it is terribly important.
 	     
 	     i want to emphasize that this summer jobs program is 
 part of an overall commitment to increase the capacity of the 
 american people -- from retraining defense workers who lose their 
 jobs and other adults who need to acquire new skills; to improving 
 the transition from school to work for young people who don't go to 
 college but do need at least two years of post-high school training 
 either on the job or in a community college or a vocational setting, 
 so that they can be competitive workers, making it possible for more 
 people to go on to college who do want to go.
 	     
 	     all these things are part and parcel of a comprehensive 
 plan.  it's also important, as i said, that we create more jobs.  the 
 emergency jobs program that i asked the congress to adopt would 
 create a half a million extra jobs over the next year and a half, and 
 that would reduce the unemployment rate by a half a percent.  it 
 would also enable us to absorb more young people coming into the work 
 force in jobs that otherwise will not be created.
 	     
 	      it also will help a lot of cities and counties to 
 invest in things that need to be done at the grass-roots level --
 projects long delayed, water projects, sewer projects, park projects, 
 new industries and particularly in small and medium-size communities 
 -- a whole range of things that will improve the economy and improve 
 the environment.  
 	     
 	     the summer jobs program is an important part of that 
 because we have tried for the first time, through the work of the 
 labor department and the education department and through reaching 
 out to people like you, to make this more than just a one-shot summer 
 jobs program; to integrate it with private sector efforts; to 
 hopefully replicate it in each coming summer; to move these young 
 people into further educational opportunities and to further job 
 opportunities; and to have a strong, meaningful education component 
 to these summer jobs -- something that the united states government 
 has never fully emphasized before.  
 	     
 	     a lot of these young people, as you well know, because 
 they come from difficult backgrounds, because they go to school in 
 difficult and challenging circumstances, need extra help in building 
 their basic skills in math and language, reasoning and in other 
 areas.  and a lot of educational studies show that young people who 
 have difficulty in school often forget as much as 30 percent of what 
 they learn over the summer and then that has to be repeated the next 
 year.  
 	     
 	     what we are trying to do here is to give people the 
 opportunity to learn good work habits and to reinforce their learning 
 skills and to put them together; and then, hopefully, over the next 
 couple of years, if our entire program passes, to give every school 
 in this country the opportunity to have a good work and learning 
 environment.  
 	     
 	     there will be more applied academics, more opportunities 
 for people to learn and work during the school year, so that this 
 will not simply be an isolated moment for these young folks, but will 
 be a part of building a whole new educational experience, a whole new 
 work experience, and moving on a pathway to a better future.
 	     
 	     the summer jobs programs are not designed to be make-
 work jobs.  they're designed to make a future for the people holding 
 the job.  and that's what they will do.  in the process, they'll help 
 to build local communities, to strengthen local economies, to solve 
 local problems.  real jobs -- renovating housing, repairing public 
 buildings, doing clerical work, providing nursing assistance in 
 hospitals, supervising and training children at child care centers, 
 and learning all the way.  challenging young people to learn while 
 they earn, but letting them earn.
 	     
 	     you know, it's very difficult to make a case to people 
 who have never seen opportunity on their own street that they should 
 do this, that, or the other thing if there's no evidence of the 
 opportunity that's at the end of the effort.  i have not been sparing 
 in going for the last year-and-a-half into places where it isn't 
 exactly popular to say it, and say i wanted to reform the welfare 
 system; i wanted to toughen child support; i wanted to require people 
 to work; i was sick and tired of people being irresponsible in the 
 use of guns on the streets, and i wanted to change all that.  but if 
 you're going to summon people to greater responsibility, you have to 
 reward them when they do the right thing with opportunity.  
 (applause.)
 	     
 	     the young people we propose to put to work under our 
 program will spend 90 hours learning basic skills, such as math, 
 reading, writing -- either on the job in the classroom.  they will 
 stretch their minds as well as work up a sweat.  they will have a 
 sense of accomplishment.  it will literally be a summer challenge, 
 but a challenge that will take them into a different life.
 	     
 	     so i want to ask all of you to support this effort even 
 as i, as your president, support your effort.  at the end of the 
 summer we will evaluate all the young people who participate.  we'll 
 see whether they, instead of falling behind over the summer 
 academically as too many young people do, they stayed even or moved 
 ahead.  i suspect that they will.  
 	     
 	     this summer, secretary reich and secretary riley and i 
 will be visiting many of your communities.  we'll really try to learn 
 from you which of these efforts are working, what we should do next 
 summer, how we can build it in to what goes on during the school 
 year, how we can build in our job training efforts and the works that 
 we do with your companies to make sense of this whole thing -- so 
 that we maximize the impact of the taxpayer dollar and your private 
 investments as well. 
 	     
 	     we want to honor the companies and the communities, the 
 business leaders and the young people who do the very best jobs this 
 summer.  and, again, i want to say to all of you in private business 
 who have matched our effort, i thank you.  and to all of you who 
 haven't, and those across the country who may listen or learn about 
 this event today, i want to implore other private employers to 
 stretch a little bit to give other young people a chance to work this 
 summer.  i'm telling you, we cannot go through another 10 years when 
 we don't give these children anything to say yes to.  if we exhort 
 them to do right, we've got to be able to reward them.  (applause.)
 	     
 	     when the other speakers were talking, i was sitting up 
 here on the platform, listening and reveling.  and they got talking 
 about work, and i got to thinking about all the different things i've 
 done to make a living in my life.  when i was 13, i made a very 
 foolish short-term business investment:  i set up a comic book stand 
 and sold two trunks full of comic books.  made more money than i had 
 ever had in my life.  but if i had saved those trunks, they'd be 
 worth $100,000 today.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     that does not mean young people should not be 
 entrepreneurial.  it just means that you can't foresee a generation 
 ahead.  i have mowed yards and cleared land and built houses and 
 worked in body shops and the parts departments of a car dealership.  
 and i've done a lot of different things for a living.  some 
 people say i got into politics to escape work.  (laughter.)  
 	     
 	     i learned something from every job i ever had.  but i 
 grew up in a generation where i literally did not know a living soul 
 without regard to race or income who wanted to work who didn't have a 
 job.  i grew up in a generation when all you had to really say to 
 people is, get an education and you'll be all right.  you'll get a 
 job and you'll make more money next year than you did this year.  now 
 i live in a generation full of people, most of whom don't make any 
 more money in real dollars than they did 10 years ago and they're 
 working longer hours and they're paying more for the basics of life.  
 and we are now wondering whether we can create the jobs that these 
 young people want.
 	     
 	     now, i want to close by reemphasizing these two things:  
 it doesn't matter what kind of economic policies this administration 
 pursues, or how much productivity increases there are in the private 
 sector, if young americans don't get a good education, don't learn 
 how to work and can't be productive, those jobs will not be created 
 in this country.  machines will do the work or the work will be done 
 off-shore by people who have the same skill levels and can work for a 
 third or a fourth or a fifth the wages.  so nothing we can do 
 economically will matter unless we build the skills and capacities of 
 america's work force.  and anybody that pretends otherwise is just 
 kidding.  
 	     
 	     on the other hand, we need to be honest.  every wealthy 
 country in the world, including the united states, is having 
 difficulty creating jobs.  if i knew everything that needs to be done 
 i'd be glad to tell you and we   could just call off the whole 
 deliberations of congress and everything else.  i don't have all the 
 answers.  but i know this:  doing nothing is not the answer.  
 (applause.)
 	     
 	     and so the jobs program that i have presented to 
 congress, with the summer jobs, with the money for the cities and the 
 counties, through the community development program, with the 
 infrastructure money, is a small part of a big budget.  it is an 
 attempt to engage in an experiment to see whether or not, with the 
 economy recovering in terms of corporate profit, we can give a little 
 boost to it, give opportunities to young people, create a half a 
 million jobs and maybe get the engine going again.
 	     
 	     most of the jobs in this program are going to be jobs in 
 the private sector, not government jobs, even though it's government 
 money.  and the lion's share of the work in rebuilding the american 
 economy obviously will come from the private sector.  that's the kind 
 of system we have and it works pretty well.  
 	     
 	     but this is the challenge we have.  so i ask all of you 
 here today to support the summer jobs program, to ask your friends 
 and neighbors to support it, to go back home and ask your employers 
 to make a little extra effort; to do what you can to help me pass the 
 funds to create the 700,000 jobs that the united states government 
 should create this summer, so that together we can have this 
 partnership.  because more than anything else, we have to give a 
 future -- a future that our young people can believe in.  
 	     
 	     we need to send them a message that here in america if 
 you study hard and work hard, if you obey the law and contribute 
 something to your community, you will be rewarded by your country.  
 you can build a future from you own dreams. 
 	     
 	     that has always been the promise of america.  together 
 that's what this summer of challenge needs to be:  a reaffirmation of 
 the promise of america for so many young people to whom that promise 
 has been an illusion.  we can make it a reality.
 	     
 	     thank you very much.  (applause.)
 
                                  end11:45 a.m. edt
 
 
 
 