
 
 
                          the white house
 
                   office of the press secretary
                    (pittsburgh, pennslyvania)
 ______________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                         april 17, 1993     
 
              
                   radio address to the nation 
                         by the president
              
                 pittsburgh international airport
                     pittsburgh, pennsylvania
              
              
 10:06 a.m. edt
              
              
              the president:  good morning.  my voice is coming to
 you this morning through the facilities of the oldest radio
 station in america, kdka in pittsburgh.  i'm visiting the city to
 meet personally with citizens here to discuss my plans for jobs,
 health care and the economy.  but i wanted first to do my weekly
 broadcast with the american people. 
              
              i'm told this station first broadcast in 1920 when
 it reported that year's presidential elections.  over the past
 seven decades presidents have found ways to keep in touch with
 the people, from whistle-stop tours to fire-side chats to the bus
 tour that i adopted, along with vice president gore, in last
 year's campaign.
              
              every saturday morning i take this time to talk with
 you, my fellow americans, about the problems on your minds and
 what i'm doing to try and solve them.  it's my way of reporting
 to you and of giving you a way to hold me accountable.
              
              you sent me to washington to get our government and
 economy moving after years of paralysis and policy and a bad
 experiment with trickle-down economics.  you know how important
 it is for us to make bold, comprehensive changes in the way we do
 business.  
              
              we live in a competitive global economy.  nations
 rise and fall on the skills of their workers, the competitiveness
 of their companies, the imagination of their industries, and the
 cooperative experience and spirit that exists between business,
 labor and government.  although many of the economies of the
 industrialized world are now suffering from slow growth, they've
 made many of the smart investments and the tough choices which
 our government has for too long ignored.  that's why many of them
 have been moving ahead and too many of our people have been
 falling behind.
              
              we have an economy today that even when it grows is
 not producing new jobs.  we've increased the debt of our nation
 by four times over the last 12 years, and we don't have much to
 show for it.  we know that wages of most working people have
 stopped rising, that most people are working longer work weeks
 and that too many families can no longer afford the escalating
 cost of health care.
              
              but we also know that, given the right tools, the
 right incentives and the right encouragement, our workers and
 businesses can make the kinds of products and profits our economy
 needs to expand opportunity and to make our communities better
 places to live.
              
              in many critical products today americans are the
 low cost, high quality producers.  our task is to make sure that
 we create more of those kinds of jobs.
              
              just two months ago i gave congress my plan for
 long-term jobs and economic growth.  it changes the old
 priorities in washington and puts our emphasis where it needs to
 be -- on people's real needs, on increasing investments and jobs
 and education, on cutting the federal deficit, on stopping the
 waste which pays no dividends, and redirecting our precious
 resources toward investment that creates jobs now and lays the
 groundwork for robust economic growth in the future.
              
              these new directions passed the congress in record
 time and created a new sense of hope and opportunity in our
 country.  then the jobs plan i presented to congress, which would
 create hundreds of thousands of jobs, most of them in the private
 sector in 1993 and 1994, passed the house of representatives.  it
 now has the support of a majority of the united states senate. 
 but it's been held up by a filibuster of a minority in the
 senate, just 43 senators.  they blocked a vote that they know
 would result in the passage of our bill and the creation of jobs.
              
              the issue isn't politics; the issue is people. 
 millions of americans are waiting for this legislation and
 counting on it, counting on us in washington.  but the jobs bill
 has been grounded by gridlock.  
              
              i know the american people are tired of business as
 usual and politics as usual.  i know they don't want us to spin
 or wheels.  they want the recovery to get moving.  so i have
 taken a first step to break this gridlock and gone the extra
 mile.  yesterday i offered to cut the size of this plan by 25
 percent -- from $16 billion to $12 billion.  
              
              it's not what i'd hoped for.  with 16 million
 americans looking for full-time work, i simply can't let the bill
 languish when i know that even a compromise bill will mean
 hundreds of thousands of jobs for our people.  the mandate is to
 act to achieve change and move the country forward.  by taking
 this initiative in the face of an unrelenting senate talkathon, i
 think we can respond to your mandate and achieve a significant
 portion of our original goals.
              
              first, we want to keep the programs as much as
 possible that are needed to generate jobs and meet human needs,
 including highway and road construction, summer jobs for young
 people, immunization for children, construction of waste water
 sites, and aid to small businesses.  we also want to keep funding
 for extended unemployment compensation benefits, for people who
 have been unemployed for a long time because the economy isn't
 creating jobs.
              
              second, i've recommended that all the other programs
 in the bill be cut across-the-board by a little more than 40
 percent.
              
              and third, i've recommended a new element in this
 program to help us immediately start our attempt to fight against
 crime by providing $200 million for cities and towns to rehire
 police officers who lost their jobs during the recession and put
 them back to work protecting our people.  i'm also going to fight
 for a tough crime bill because the people of this country need it
 and deserve it.
              
              now, the people who are filibustering this bill --
 the republican senators -- say they won't vote for it because it
 increases deficit spending, because there's extra spending this
 year that hasn't already been approved.  that sounds reasonable,
 doesn't it?  here's what they don't say.  this program is more
 than paid for by budget cuts over my five-year budget, and this
 budget is well within the spending limits already approved by the
 congress this year.
              
              it's amazing to me that many of these same senators
 who are filibustering the bill voted during the previous
 administration for billions of dollars of the same kind of
 emergency spending, and much of it was not designed to put the
 american people to work.  
              
              this is not about deficit spending.  we have offered
 a plan to cut the deficit.  this is about where your priorities
 are -- on people or on politics.  
              
              keep in mind that our jobs bill is paid for dollar
 for dollar.  it is paid for by budget cuts.  and it's the
 soundest investment we can now make for ourselves and our
 children.  i urge all americans to take another look at this jobs
 and investment program; to consider again the benefits for all of
 us when we've helped make more american partners working to
 ensure the future of our nation and the strength of our economy.
              
              you know, if every american who wanted a job had
 one, we wouldn't have a lot of the other problems we have in this
 country today.  this bill is not a miracle, it's a modest first
 step to try to set off a job creation explosion in this country
 again.  but it's a step we ought to take.  and it is fully paid
 for over the life of our budget.
              
              tell your lawmakers what you think.  tell them how
 important the bill is.  if it passes, we'll all be winners.
              
              good morning, and thank you for listening.
 
                                end                 10:11 a.m. edt
 
 
 
 