    675 mass. ave., cambridge, ma  02139, usa +1 (617) 876-3296
 lines: 844
 sender: daemon@ai.mit.edu
 message-id: <1ql0rlinnint@life.ai.mit.edu>
 nntp-posting-host: life.ai.mit.edu
 
 
 
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 _____________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                                  april 15, 1993
 
 
                             press briefing
                            by dee dee myers
 
 	     
                           the briefing room
 
 
 9:45 a.m. edt
 
 	     	  
 	     q	  why was the 10:00 a.m. postponed? 
 	     	  
 	     ms. myers:  just due to scheduling conflicts.  so as we 
 put out, the president will meet with the leaders of the national 
 police organizations at 2:00 p.m. in the rose garden, as opposed to 
 10:00 a.m.  the only other things on his schedule today are:  at 
 11:00 a.m. he'll meet with general vessey, who, as you know, is on 
 his way to vietnam to continue working on the mia-pow issue.  at 
 12:30 p.m. he'll have lunch with the vice president in the oval 
 office.  and at 2:00 p.m. he'll meet with the police organizations.
 then from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. he'll do his weekly photos with the 
 various groups.
 	     
 	     q	  a photo op with vessey?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there's no coverage on the vessey meeting.
 	     
 	     q	  why?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  why?  it's a closed meeting.  
 	     
 	     q	  what about the lunch?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the lunch?  no, there's no coverage.
 	     
 	     q	  is he meeting with any congress people today?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  nothing scheduled.
 	     
 	     q	  there are no meetings --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there are no congressional meetings today, 
 no.
 	     
 	     q	  has the president been given any information by the 
 pentagon or reached any conclusion about the validity of this report 
 from hanoi?  any instructions to vessey on how to deal with the 
 vietnamese on that subject?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  well, clearly, the report is the first order 
 of business.  it's high on the agenda on something that they'll 
 discuss.  i think the president and general vessey will discuss the 
 parameters of his visit to vietnam today, but the president hasn't 
 drawn any conclusions about the report yet.  certainly, it's 
 something that he wants general vessey to talk with the vietnamese 
 about first.
 	     
 	     q	  did the president talk with any republican senators 
 yesterday about the stimulus package?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  he spoke with senator dole.
 	     
 	     q	  how many times?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i believe once during the day and once last 
 night.
 	     
 	     q	  what was the outcome of that?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  they're continuing to work toward some kind 
 of an agreement on a jobs package.
 	     
 	     q	  is it your impression that senator dole is in any 
 way flexible on this?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  well, i think we're hopeful that we're going 
 to get some kind of jobs package through the senate, and we'll 
 continue to work with senator dole and others until we reach some 
 kind of an agreement.
 	     
 	     q	  did they discuss the vat tax?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't know if that came up.
 	     
 	     q	  can you check that?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  sure.
 
 	     q	  so what are they -- is the president offering to 
 scale down his program -- is that what he's trying to do, buy it down 
 to where dole will sign on?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  well, he's trying to protect as much of it 
 as he can.  but it's important to him to get some kind of a jobs 
 package through the senate and through congress now.  and as soon as 
 we reach some conclusions on that, we'll let you know.  but at the 
 moment, he's continuing to consult with members of congress 
 including, obviously, senator dole.
 	     
 	     q	  is he talking to anybody else?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't believe he talked to any other 
 republicans yesterday.
 	     
 	     q	  is he talking to anybody today?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't think anything is scheduled, but i 
 wouldn't rule it out.
 	     
 	     q	  we were led to believe that the president called 
 mr. dole on the subject of russian aid and that bob dole brought the 
 conversation around to stimulus package.  is that correct?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think the president has contacted several 
 people on russian aid.  i think that it was always expected that the 
 stimulus package or the jobs package will be part of any conversation 
 he would have with senator dole.  the primary objective of the 
 conversation was russian aid.  that was the first order of business, 
 but it was both.
 	     
 	     q	  in the president's mind, are they linked 
 politically in that if the republicans continue to reject the 
 stimulus package, he thinks it will be harder to sell russian aid to 
 the american people?  has he made that argument?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i can't talk about specifically what 
 arguments he might have made.  the president is obviously committed 
 to both.  he liked to see a jobs package to the american people 
 first.  but as you know, we outlined the details of additional 
 russian aid last night in tokyo.
 	     
 	     q	  but does the president believe that the stimulus 
 package will make it more difficult to persuade americans to vote for 
 russian -- to accept a vote for russian aid?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think that the president is going to 
 continue to work to pass the stimulus package, to pass a jobs 
 package, and we're still hopeful that we'll get some kind of jobs 
 package through the congress.
 	     
 	     q	  is it fair to say that the president is negotiating 
 now with dole?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  he's discussing options with him.
 	     
 	     q	  on the stimulus, is it your understanding that over 
 the break some democrats, themselves, have left the support that they 
 had earlier for the package, the stimulus package?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think we still have wide support in the 
 senate for the jobs package.
 	     
 	     q	  but specifically, that you've lost democrats other 
 than shelby?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't believe so.  there hasn't been a 
 vote.
 	     
 	     q	  what about kohl?
 	     
 	     q	  kohl and feingold?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there hasn't been a vote yet.  and we'll 
 continue to work with senators to try to get a majority to try to 
 bring the package to a vote, because we believe that a majority of 
 the members of the united states senate support the package.
 	     
 	     q	  if you're weren't worried about kohl and feingold, 
 why did george mention milwaukee projects the other day?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think george pointed out a number of 
 projects in a number of states that stand to be funded, or to lose 
 funding if this jobs package doesn't pass.
 	     
 	     q	  no democrats.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'll let you draw your own conclusions.
 	     
 	     q	  does he plan to talk to dole again today or any 
 other republicans again today?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there's nothing specifically scheduled, but 
 again, i wouldn't rule it out.
 	     
 	     q	  does he plan to put out any more press releases to 
 any other states today?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  what we've done is we're in the process of 
 breaking down the benefits of the jobs package state by state.  i 
 think it's entirely feasible that as we sort of are able to sum those 
 up, we'll send out press releases to the various states that suggest 
 how their states would benefit from this package.
 	     
 	     q	  will you share those with us?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  sure.  as we did yesterday.
 	     
 	     q	  do you have copies of the ones you sent --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  yes, we made those available yesterday.  and 
 we certainly can continue to provide them today.
 	     
 	     q	  dee dee, since yesterday's questions and subsequent 
 stories about the vat, what further consideration of this issue has 
 been given?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  nothing's changed since yesterday.  i think 
 the president commented on it this morning to say only that it was 
 something he knew was being considered by the task force and that he 
 has not made a decision on, and i don't think we have anything to add 
 to that.
 	     
 	     q	  but he also said that business and labor groups are 
 telling him they support it.  can you tell us --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think that there has been -- i'm not going 
 to speculate on who supports it.  i think the president said that 
 there has been some support among business and labor groups.  i don't 
 think he said he was directly contacted by them.
 	     
 	     q	  are we to take that to mean that the administration 
 has sounded out business and labor groups on this --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think there's been plenty of public 
 discourse on this over the years and even recently, but i don't think 
 i want to add to that.
 	     
 	     q	  in february, though, the president said that this 
 was something to be considered 10 or 15 years down the road.  what 
 has happened between then and now to cause this administration to 
 change its mind?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think as we said yesterday, it is 
 something that the working groups are looking at.  they're 
 considering a wide variety of options on everything from funding to 
 specific options that will be covered by the president's health care 
 plan.  the president has not taken it up yet, has not made a decision 
 on it.  and beyond that, i don't have anything to add.
 	     
 	     q	  you haven't answered the question.  it wasn't being 
 considered by anyone in the white house after the president's 
 comments in february, and george reaffirmed that in a briefing.
 	     
 	     q	  and then suddenly --
 	     
 	     q	  what happened?
 
 	     ms. myers:  the working groups, as we have said 
 throughout, we instructed to consider a wide variety of options 
 across-the-board.  and one of the things that has been talked about 
 and that they are clearly considering is some kind of a value-added 
 tax.
 
 	     q	  but the president himself took this off the table, 
 dee dee, and suddenly it reappears.  and this goes to the credibility 
 of this administration in a way.  what has happened in the meantime?
 
 	     ms. myers:  the president has not looked at this, it 
 hasn't been presented to him, again, yet.  the working groups are 
 looking at it, as they're looking at a wide variety of options, and 
 no decisions have been made.
 
 	     q	  and it raises the question of how independently the 
 task force is working.
 
 	     ms. myers:  the task force was instructed to consider 
 all options, and they've taken that mandate seriously and they're 
 considering all options.
 
 	     q	  but that's not the impression that the president 
 left in february.  the impression he left was that this was something 
 that was long-range, to be looked at 10, 15 years down the road.  the 
 clear implication of his remarks was that this was something that was 
 not on the table, not an option. 
 
 	     q	  "if it changes i'll tell you."
 	     
 	     q	  bring him on.
 
 	     q	  and you repeatedly referred to the president's 
 remarks, telling us that those were still in operation.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's changed, and we told you.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  but that's what alice rivlin's comments and donna 
 shalala comments were about.  i mean, that seemed like an 
 orchestrated effort because you have two independent cabinet officers 
 --
 
 	     ms. myers:  i wouldn't -- no, alice rivlin's not a 
 cabinet member, first of all.  second of all, it was not 
 orchestrated, but clearly, they both said yesterday and in the last 
 couple of days that it's something that's being looked at.  we 
 confirmed that yesterday.  and i don't have anything to add to that.
 
 	     q	  is it because he has very few options?
 
 	     q	  is this something that it will be incumbent upon 
 the task force to convince the president about?  in other words, has 
 the president himself personally ruled it out and it's now up to the 
 task force to convince him to put it back on the table?  or is it, in 
 fact, back on the table, having been placed there by discussions with 
 the president?  
 
 	     ms. myers:  it is not the working group's mission at 
 this point to convince the president of anything.  it is their 
 mission to put before him his options and to explain the benefits and 
 the costs and the basic pros and cons of each of those options.  i 
 think that they will certainly present the vat to him in that 
 context, and at this point he's not -- that presentation has not been 
 made, but it's something that he will hear and he has not made a 
 decision on.
 
 	     q	  they will present it to him as one of his options, 
 though he specifically ruled it out?
 
 	     ms. myers:  correct.
 
 	     q	  dee dee, is this more than a trial balloon?  is 
 this a serious consideration that the working groups are giving to 
 this form of taxation?
 
 	     ms. myers:  it's simply a statement of fact.  the 
 working groups are considering a wide variety of options on a number 
 of issues relating to health care reform.  one of the options that 
 they're looking at is the vat. 
 
 	     q	  dee dee, when the working groups were examining 
 this possibility, was this on the table during the same time period 
 that you were telling us that it was not?
 
 	     ms. myers:  i don't know what the specific timing of 
 their drafting of options is.  i don't know.
 
 	     q	  who was telling you that it was not under 
 consideration?
 
 	     ms. myers:  i was referring back to the president's 
 comments.
 
 	     q	  have they discovered that the sin taxes won't raise 
 enough money to fund the core benefit package?
 
 	     ms. myers:  no, there's no decisions that have been made 
 on how to pay for the health care plan.
 	     
 	     q	  i'm asking whether the projections --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there's a number of options depending on how 
 the plan is structured.  you can't decide how much the plan is going 
 to cost until you decide what the plan is going to look like.  and so 
 you can't discuss what financing options have been ruled in our out 
 until you know.
 
 	     q	  dee dee, we've been told that they have a computer 
 models on a number of possible packages.
 
 	     ms. myers:  correct.  
 
 	     q	  the question is whether they have now determined 
 whether sin taxes would not produce enough money for even the barest 
 minimum package.  that is not a very difficult computation.
 
 	     ms. myers:  it is a question that you know that we're 
 not going to answer until -- there's a number of options being 
 considered.  it depends on how the package is structured.  the exact 
 details of the package and the financing mechanisms used to pay for 
 them are all among the decisions that have yet to be made.  
 	     
 	     q	  and when the president has been meeting with health 
 care -- his health care advisors, which we are told he has been doing 
 --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  correct.
 	     
 	     q	     they have never once said to him, these are your 
 funding options, including the vat?  he has never heard the word vat 
 in his --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:    i am not going to comment on the specific 
 nature of the daily -- they're not daily, but the quasi-regular 
 briefings.
 	     
 	     q	  well, you have.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i have not, other than to say that he's not 
 considered the vat.  and i think that is a true statement.
 	     
 	     q	  no, but you said that it has not been presented to 
 him as an option.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  correct.
 	     
 	     q	  that doesn't mean he hasn't heard about it.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'm not going to get into the details of 
 what's discussed.  i think that statement stands for itself.
 	     
 	     q	     specific, dee dee.  when you say he hasn't 
 looked at it, do you mean that he hasn't looked at it in terms of 
 paying for medical coverage, or hasn't looked at it in general?  
 because back in chilicothe he was very specific in defining how it 
 works, what the advantages are, the whole thing.  it sounds like --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  but that was -- i think in chilicothe, if 
 you go back to his remarks there, it was a broader philosophical 
 discussion of the tax structure.  and i think the comments were 
 generally in reference to the overall economic plan.  but clearly, 
 it's something that he's thought about in the broad context.  i mean, 
 that was clear in chilicothe.  what i'm saying is that in the process 
 of the working groups it's something that he hasn't considered yet.  
 it's something that the working groups will present to him among the 
 number of options, and that no decisions have been made.  and i'm not 
 going to comment any further on the details of the meetings where 
 health care issues are being discussed.
 	     
 	     q	  it's your statement from this podium that no 
 discussion of this has taken place.  you say that no option -- that 
 the option has not been presented to him.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  that is correct.
 	     
 	     q	  do you stand by -- does the white house still stand 
 by george's statement in march that this will not be in the proposal?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no decisions have been made.  we have 
 nothing to add to what's already been said.
 	     
 	     q	  let me follow up here.  do you stand by what rivlin 
 said yesterday, that if any kind of vat were to be used or 
 considered, that other changes to the tax code would have to be made 
 so that it would be less regressive?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'm not going to comment any further on what 
 might happen if.
 	     
 	     q	  but do you stand by the previous conversations in 
 february that if there were to be a vat, i think the president said 
 you'd exclude food and energy --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'm not going to comment on the specific 
 structure of a decision that hasn't been made.
 	     
 	     q	  was the president aware prior to donna shalala's 
 comments yesterday that this was under consideration by the working 
 groups?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't know specifically what --
 	     
 	     q	  could you check for us, because that's a real 
 important credibility question?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  sure.
 	     
 	     q	  since the task force was brought together this 
 issue has been discussed, at the beginning and throughout, as one 
 fairly painless way to raise a lot of money.  were you all kept in 
 the dark?  was the press office kept in the dark over the past month 
 and a half when you've been denying that a vat tax would be 
 considered that it was actually on the table over there as an option?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think we've said all that we have to say.  
 it is something the working groups are looking at.  the president has 
 not made a decision about it yet.  and beyond that, i have nothing to 
 add.
 	     
 	     q	  well, sorry, dee dee, there are still a couple of 
 questions that we are going to have to ask because we have a problem 
 with credibility here -- yours primarily.  what we're asking is, if 
 you all were not told at all that this thing was being considered 
 while you were coming out here and telling us that it was not, or if 
 it's a case that you were coming out here and deliberately misleading 
 us.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't believe that anyone has ever come 
 out here and deliberately misled you from this podium -- ever --ever.
 	     
 	     q	  has anyone tried to shade it a little bit to 
 indicate something -- has anybody told anybody to come out --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we're not trying to shade answers or 
 deliberately mislead anybody.  i've said what i have to say about 
 this issue.
 	     
 	     q	  all we were trying to find out --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i understand what you're trying to find out 
 and i've given you the answers, helen.
 	     
 	     q	  we're trying to find out what changed -- what made 
 it an option again.  that's the --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the working groups were given a broad 
 mandate to investigate all options, and they are doing that.  
 	     
 	     q	  yes, but it wasn't an option before.  how can you 
 investigate it if the president has taken it off the table?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it is something that they're obviously 
 considering and the president has not made a decision on.
 	     
 	     q	  yes, but he took it off the table in february.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  working groups are considering it.  they'll 
 present it to the president at some point and he'll make a decision.
 	     
 	     q	  why would they consider it if he has taken it off 
 the table?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's clearly on the table. 
 	     
 	     q	  yes, but he took it off the table.  did he change 
 his mind?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's back on the table, bill.
 	     
 	     q	  did he change his mind?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  he said this morning that he hasn't made a 
 decision about it.  he obviously knows that it's on the table.  it's 
 something that he will look at at some and when we have a decision on 
 this we'll let you know.
 	     
 	     q	  so he must have changed his mind, right?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  at some point it will be looked at.  i mean, 
 --
 	     
 	     q	  dee dee, there's like two options -- either he 
 changed his mind or the working groups think they're authority 
 exceeds the president's.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the working groups were given a broad 
 mandate to look at all options; they've done that.
 	     
 	     q	  are you going to put out his income tax?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  yes, there will be something available on 
 his income tax probably later this afternoon.  his return will be 
 available. 
 	     
 	     q	  will there be any kind of briefing to go through 
 it?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no, nothing's planned.  i think someone will 
 be available, probably not in a briefing setting, but to walk you 
 through the questions.
 	     
 	     q	  we're used to be walked line-by-line through the 
 presidential tax forms.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i've seen those briefings.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  could we have one?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:   no, i don't think there will be any kind of 
 a formal briefing, but there will be somebody available to answer 
 your questions about it.
 	     
 	     q	  did they file a joint form?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  when did he file it?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i believe it's being filed today.
 	     
 	     q	  dee dee, is there going to be a backgrounder for 
 miyazawa?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no, there will be a readout after the 
 meeting.
 	     
 	     q	  no backgrounder today?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no backgrounder today.
 	     
 	     q	  this is complicated stuff.  we need help.  
 (laughter.)
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we can't give you taxes and miyazawa all in 
 one day, it's too confusing.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  vance and owen have opened the doors on the use of 
 force in bosnia.   they've both said that, a, they never ruled it 
 out, and b, it might be necessary now.  does that influence your 
 thinking on whether or not to change your approach?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there's been no change in our policy towards 
 bosnia.  we have always said that we'd consider --
 	     
 	     q	  but does that impact upon your decision?  are they 
 people whose opinions would carry weight with you?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  they're people whose opinions carry weight 
 certainly.  i mean, the president supports the process that they've 
 initiated.  but there's been no change in our policy for bosnia, 
 although we're considering a number of options right now.  if the 
 serbs don't come back to the negotiating table, if they don't sign on 
 to some kind of an agreement, we will consider additional options, 
 which we've been saying regularly.
 	     
 	     q	  one follow-up question then?  we cannot get a 
 straight answer from anyone in the administration.  why do you not 
 set a deadline for the serbs?  can you tell us the strategic or 
 tactical reasons for not giving them a deadline to come to the table?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we're continuing to put pressure on them 
 every day.
 	     
 	     q	  which doesn't work so --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  well, we think it is having some effect.  
 we're going to continue to tighten sanctions.  as you know, we 
 support the omnibus resolution.  we expect that to come to a vote on 
 the 26th.  
 	     
 	     q	  you say it's having an effect -- can you give us 
 any documentation?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'd be happy to provide somebody to talk to 
 you about the impact of the sanctions and things like that.
 	     
 	     q	  there's been no -- you have not been able to 
 provide anybody who can tell us that the sanctions have had any 
 effect in bosnia.  serbia, yes; in bosnia, no.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i think that they've had effect in serbia 
 and we think they've had some effect in bosnia.  and again, i'll be 
 happy to provide somebody to walk you through the details of that, if 
 you'd like.
 	     
 	     q	  we would like to hear from someone who can show us 
 what the effect has been in bosnia.  we had the briefing on all of 
 the terrible things that are happening in belgrade, but we haven't 
 seen anything that indicates an impact on the fighting.  can you 
 provide something along those lines?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i will see what i can get you.
 	     
 	     q	  on the extra russian aid that christopher announced 
 this morning -- where is that money coming from?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we'll have to work with congress on the 
 details of that package.
 	     
 	     q	  so that would be new money that you would hope to 
 get?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:    yes, that's new money, in addition to the 
 $1.6 billion announced in vancouver.  so i assume that you all have 
 seen the $1.8-billion package that was announced this morning in 
 tokyo by secretary christopher.
 	     
 	     q	  isn't there a concern, though, about offering 
 something which you have to get in congress?  i mean, that was the 
 concern with vancouver; you didn't want to do that.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the concern with vancouver was to do 
 something immediately, which required money that was already approved 
 in the fiscal '93 budget.  what we're looking at now is a little bit 
 longer-term plan to build on top of the $1.6 billion that we 
 announced in vancouver.  this clearly will require congressional 
 approval, or some of it will anyway, and we're going to continue to 
 work with congress to make that happen.
 	     
 	     q	  to what extent has that been vetted or agreed to by 
 congress?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the president has had a number of 
 conversations with members and will continue to work with them as 
 this process moves forward.
 	     
 	     q	  was christopher able to put this package out with a 
 fair degree of understanding that you will be able to get it through 
 congress?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it was created in consultation with 
 congress.
 	     
 	     q	  in meeting with the law enforcement officials, is 
 that -- does that have a set speech and a goal?  a direction?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  yes, the president will talk about -- and 
 the law enforcement organizations are endorsing the president's jobs 
 package.  they believe particularly the summer jobs package will help 
 give kids something to do.
 	     
 	     q	  who are they?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's members or leadership from three 
 organizations:  napo, which is the national association of police 
 organizations; ibpo, which is the international brotherhood of police 
 organizations, i believe; and iupa, which is the international union 
 of police associations.
 	     
 	     q	  will the fbi chief be there?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  the fbi chief?  no.
 	     
 	     q	  or any other federal law enforcement officials?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no, it will be the president and these 
 national law enforcement organization leaders.
 	     
 	     q	  does the $1.8 billion announced today include the 
 $400 million that's in the fy '94 budget for disarmament?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no.  the nunn-lugar money is separate.
 	     
 	     q	  so this would be the $700 million that's in the 
 budget already, plus another $1.1 billion?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i believe all of this is on top of the $700 
 million already in the budget.
 	     
 	     q	  is this going to be part of the supplemental or 
 fiscal '94 --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we'll work with congress on the exact 
 funding mechanism -- on exactly how this will be paid for.
 	     
 	     q	  this $1.8 billion on top of --
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  on top of $700 million -- on top of the $400 
 million nunn-lugar money we announced earlier.
 	     
 	     q	  and this is what prompted the president to call bob 
 dole -- it was on this tranche, not on the previous money he was 
 calling bob dole?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  correct.
 	     
 	     q	  is there a briefing on miyazawa?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  there will be a readout after the meeting 
 with miyazawa.  tomorrow.
 	     
 	     q	  dee dee, on a totally unrelated matter, some 
 republicans who are active in the u.s. chamber of commerce are 
 complaining about this new cozy relationship between the white house 
 and the chamber of commerce.  there are -- the town hall meeting the 
 other night, the satellite and all of this relationship.
 does the white house feel that you're getting too close to these 
 chambers of commerce?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  that's an interesting charge.  (laughter.)  
 after how many years of democrats being accused of not paying any 
 attention to the chambers, now there are those who would accuse us of 
 being too close.  i think that's interesting.  but no, we're thrilled 
 by the support we've received from the national chamber and local 
 chambers across the country and we'll continue to work with them on 
 this and other initiatives.
 	     
 	     q	  what's the status of the president thinking about 
 going to this democratic retreat?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's on his calendar.  i think he'll almost 
 certainly go.
 	     
 	     q	  all three days?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we haven't figured out exactly when he'll be 
 there yet.  
 	     
 	     q	  is it open to coverage?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no, i believe the whole thing is closed.
 	     
 	     q	  is he going to have any kind of address, statement, 
 anything at all on the gay rights march on the 25th?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  we're still looking at that.  we haven't 
 made a final decision about how we'll -- who will make a statement or 
 what --
 	     
 	     q	  any meetings scheduled with any of the leaders?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  nothing is scheduled, but i wouldn't rule it 
 out.
 	     
 	     q	  what about an aids czar?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's coming.
 	     
 	     q	  anything on the weekend?
 	     
 	     q	  there's been a suggestion that he's going to this 
 retreat to avoid having to participate in the gay rights -- or appear 
 or have any involvement in the gay rights march.
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no, i think this is something he's been 
 discussing for a long time -- appearing at the senate democratic 
 retreat.
 	     
 	     q	  the weekend?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  weekend?  don't know -- the only thing on 
 right now is the radio address on saturday.
 	     
 	     q	  any travel plans?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  if it changes -- none right now.
 	     
 	     q	  he's not going to be off campaigning for his 
 stimulus package?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  no specific plans right now.
 	     
 	     q	  what about mid-week?  anything likely?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  it's possible.  yes, i think it's likely 
 that we'll travel next week -- certainly the weekend.
 	     
 	     q	  has he called thurmond about his daughter?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i don't know.  i'll check.
 	     
 	     q	  going to name a drug czar this weekend?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  this weekend?  i don't believe so.
 	     
 	     q	  and the radio address on saturday -- is that going 
 to be focused on the stimulus package?
 	     
 	     ms. myers:  i'm sure it will.
 	     
 	     the press:  thank you.
 
                                  end10:10 a.m. edt
 
 
 
 