
 fury of mother nature
 
 man's contribution to environmental "pollution" are paltry compared to those 
 of nature. in her exceptional book trashing the planet, former atomic energy 
 commision chairman dr. dixie lee ray notes based on the available data, "all 
 of the air polluting materials produced by man since the beginning of the 
 industrial revolution do not begin to equal  the quantities of toxic 
 materials, aerosols, and particulates spewed into the air from just three 
 volcanoes: krakatoa in indonesia in 1883, mount katmai in alaska in 1912, and 
 hekla in iceland in 1947." to which could be added mount st. helens in 
 washington state in 1980 (which pumped out 910,000 metric tons of carbon 
 dioxide alone). el chicon in mexico in 1982 (which sent more than 100 million 
 tons of sulfur gases into the stratosphere), and mount pinatubo in the 
 philippines (which in 1991 hurled upwards of 30 million tons of material into 
 the stratosphere).
 los ninos
 many environmentalists attributed the 1988 drought in the u.s. to global 
 warming, but researchers with the national center for atmospheric research in 
 boulder colorado reported that the freakish weather was actually due to a 
 natural phenomenon, the interaction of el nino and el nina, two massive 
 currents in the tropical pacific. el nino is a huge strip of warm water that 
 periodically appears off the coast of south america and disrupts the world's 
 weather patterns. now and then, it alternates with el nina, a mass of cold 
 water that comes from the ocean depths along the equator and drifts for 
 thousands of miles.
 chicago tribune's  peter gorner summarized the phenomenon: "cold water along 
 the equator clashed with warmer than normal water southeast of hawaii. the 
 result was both the u.s. drought and the devastating floods that swamped 
 bangladesh...... nina's cooler water disrupted tropical weather patterns and 
 distorted the path of the jet stream across north america. then the jet 
 stream shoved rain-producing weather systems away from the interior of the 
 u.s. resulting in drought."
 termite terror
 
 sundry animals and insects also contribute their share to environmental 
 "degradation. time for april 20,1992 noted that in "the netherlands... manure 
 from pigs poses a major ecological threat, defiling water supplies with 
 excessive nitrites and acidifying local soils. sheep have permanently scarred 
 the landscape in spain and portugal, while in india ... bovines [cows] are 
 ravenous wraiths whose constant quest  for food drives them to ravage 
 standing forrests."
 the february 1983 issue  of science digest reported that "an international 
 team of researchers has discovered that termites generate more than twice the 
 carbon dioxide  that fuel burning does." according to a study reported in 
 science for november 5, 1982, the "estimated gross amount of carbon dioxide 
 produced [by termites] was more than twice the net global input from fossil 
 fuel combustion." in addition, "termites are a potentially important source 
 of atmospheric methane: they could account for a large fraction of global 
 emmisions." the wood-eating pests have a bacteria that enables them too 
 digest carbon so efficiently that some 90 pe is converted too carbon dioxide, 
 methane, and other gases they belch into the atmosphere.
 ants are another natural source of "pollution." in 1987, an atmospheric 
 chemist with bell laboratories, and zoologists from cornell university, 
 reported that ants of the subfamily formicinae make and store huge quantities 
 of the formic acid that contributes most of the acidity of rain that falls in 
 remote areas and is found in atmosphere gas and precepitation around the 
 globe. it is abundant, for instance, in the fog and mists that hang over the 
 rain forests of central africa. according to the july 6, 1987 insight 
 magazine, the "ants release the acid when defending themselves and 
 communicating with each other and upon dying. since  30 percent of the world 
 ant population belongs to this subfamily, there is significant concern about  
 the acid the ants release," an amount estimated at "600,000 metric tons 
 annually." which is equal to the combined formic acid contributions of 
 automobiles, refuse combustion and vegetation."
 clearly, man has a long way to go to match nature as a "despoiler" of the 
 environment.
 by robert w. lee.
 
 
 ------
 techie@cellar.org (william a bacon)
 the cellar bbs - (215) 539-3043
 