
 in article <1993apr15.170731.8797@isc-br.isc-br.com> steveh@thor.isc-br.com (steve hendricks) writes:
 
 [ these two paragraphs are from two different posts.  in splicing them 
   together it is not my intention to change steve's meaning or misrepresent
   him in any way.  i don't *think* i've done so. ]
 
 >as noted in another thread (limiting govt), the problem libertarians face
 >is insuring that the "limited government" they seek does not become the 
 >tool of private interests to pursue their own agenda.
 > 
 >it is a failure of libertarianism if the ideology does not provide any
 >reasonable way to restrain such actions other than utopian dreams.  just
 >as marxism "fails" to specify how pure communism is to be achieved and
 >the state is to "wither away," libertarians frequently fail to show how
 >weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human
 >condition.
 
 part of what started this was my earlier example of illinois, usa requiring
 anyone doing more than x automobile transfers a year (x = 10, i think)
 to become licensed as a used car dealer.  in addition, it requirs anyone
 with a used car dealer's license to own at least 10 cars at a time, all the
 time. 
 
 let me continue with this example and try to answer steve's questions.
 
 steve, let's say you have the talent and inclination to fix up and resell
 cars.  either you've gotten good enough at it in your spare time to bump
 up against these limits, or you would like to do it full-time but these
 stupid, arbitrary laws prevent you from starting out small and pulling
 yourself up.  so i'm protected from a hungry neighborhood competitor willing
 to take a low profit while working extra hard to fulfill my needs, and you're
 protected from doing what you want with your life.
 
 here's what i see libertarianism offering you:
 
 your money is truly yours; it belongs to you.  you can use it to buy a car.
 if you use it to buy a car, it is truly your car; it belongs to you.  you
 can use your money to fix up that car.  since it is your car, you can sell
 that car.
 
 your life is truly yours; it belongs to you.  it matters not if someone
 thinks that it's "wrong" for you to buy and sell 10 cars within 12 months
 rather than, say, 9 cars.  they may dissaprove, but it is not their life or
 their money, it is your life and your money.
 
 my money is truly mine; it belongs to me.  i can use it to buy a car.
 perhaps your car.  perhaps that 10th car, the one that someone, somewhere
 dissaproves of you selling and, presumably, of me buying.
 
 that someone could go to the government and insist that the government make
 us stop it.  but the government would be powerless to stop us from doing
 what we like with our own property, in the abscence of fraud or agression.
 and it would be powerless to stop us from associating with each other.
 
 this does not seem to me to be a utopian dream, but basic human decency
 and common sense.  a real grass-roots example of freedom and liberty.
 and yes, not having a few people acting as our masters, approving or
 rejecting each of our basic transactions with each other, does strike me
 as a wonderful way to improve the human condition.
 
    thanks awfully,
              patrick
  
 