    675 mass. ave., cambridge, ma  02139, usa +1 (617) 876-3296
 lines: 1135
 sender: daemon@ai.mit.edu
 message-id: <1ql8toinnlp9@life.ai.mit.edu>
 nntp-posting-host: life.ai.mit.edu
 
 
 
 	     
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 _____________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                                  april 15, 1993
 
 
                             press briefing
                        by george stephanopoulos
 
                           the briefing room
 
 
 
 1:04 p.m. edt
 	     
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  good afternoon.  
 	     
 	     q	  could we do this on the lawn?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that would be nice.  let's go out 
 to the cherry blossoms.  we'll do like the president.
 	     
 	     q	  is the stimulus package dead? 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely not.  
 	     
 	     q	  can you tell us more about the dole talks?  you 
 said it was a good visit, but no compromise.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.  the president had a good talk 
 with senator dole last night.  i think that as we said before, there 
 were no specific compromises on either side, although it was a very 
 good discussion about the jobs package and about other issues as 
 well.  as you know, the president first called senator dole i believe 
 tuesday night to talk about the russian aid package.  they did not 
 speak -- senator dole called him back wednesday morning -- when the 
 president was out.  instead he spoke with tony lake, and at the close 
 of that conversation, indicated that he wanted to speak to the 
 president about the jobs and stimulus package.  they finally talked 
 about that yesterday afternoon.
 	     
 	     at the close of that discussion they said that they 
 would have another talk last night, which they did, when the senator 
 was up in new hampshire.  and although there were no specific 
 compromises made on either side, they did say that they would 
 continue to have some discussions.  and that's where we are.
 	     
 	     q	  well, who is giving in?  where is it standing --are 
 both making concessions?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know that it's at that 
 phase.  no compromise has been made.  as the president has said 
 consistently, he intends to come forward with an adjusted package.  
 he believes in the package, but he believes that if it's going to 
 take adjustments to get the minority to release it, he's willing to 
 make those adjustments.
 	     
 	     q	  on the subject of a vat --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, boy.
 	     
 	     q	  can we stay on this for one more minute?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sure.
 	     
 	     q	  we have a problem with the five minutes --
 	     
 	     q	  i know no decisions have been made, but what would 
 lead the health group to believe that a vat might be necessary?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sorry, andrea, i'm not going to go 
 down that road.  no decisions have been made.  as the president said 
 this morning, a number of groups, a number of members of congress, a 
 number of other organizations have recommended that this be looked 
 at.  the working group is looking at it, but no decisions have been 
 made.
 	     
 	     q	  to follow, have they done that directly through 
 him?  have labor and business groups been in touch with the president 
 about it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not to my knowledge, although 
 there's a lot of people who have public decisions in support of the 
 vat.  but the president has not made a decision.
 	     
 	     q	  at the meetings that he's had with his own task 
 force advisers, have they discussed the funding issue and what the 
 possible options would be?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think that that has been 
 presented for a decision, no.
 	     
 	     q	  not for a decision, but has it been discussed as an 
 option?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, there are a lot of levels of 
 briefing.  i do not believe that the vat has been presented to the 
 president as, okay, this is something for you to decide on.  
 	     
 	     q	  you're not saying he didn't know it was being 
 considered, though, are you?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, he said it's being considered.
 	     
 	     q	  he knew that.
 	     
 	     q	  but has he discussed that with his advisers?  
 that's what i'm asking.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president has said it's being 
 considered.  i do not know what level of discussion there has been 
 over the vat.  it is something the working groups are looking at.  i 
 don't even know that it's --
 	     
 	     q	  but he didn't say he was considering, did he, at 
 this stage?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, he is not.  i think we're 
 getting into something of a metaphysical debate right here.  what is 
 considered -- 
 	     
 	     q	  well, he is the one who said, i haven't reviewed 
 it.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that is true.  that is what i just 
 repeated. 
 	     
 	     q	  george, is there any concern here that as a result 
 of the definite statement he made in february and the promise that if 
 it were to be considered he'd let us know, and having it trickle out 
 the way it did, that there may now be the development of a 
 credibility gap on this issue and others?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think so.  i mean, it is 
 now public knowledge that this is being considered.
 	     
 	     q	  is he or you at all embarrassed about the absolute 
 statements that were made from this platform to the effect that it 
 was off the table and was not being considered, and then to have it 
 come out not from you people, but --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, wait a second.  it came out 
 from the administration.  what are you talking about?
 	     
 	     q	  what i'm saying is, though, that the president said 
 he would let us know. 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  right.
 	     
 	     q	  you people then said -- you said, i believe, that 
 it's not going to be on the program.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  on march 25th.
 	     
 	     q	  on march 25th. 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  circumstances change.
 	     
 	     q	  well, i understand.  but we have to find that out 
 by rooting around in the fine print of an interview
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  rooting around -- i know you did do 
 a very good job there to read the usa today article.  but this is --
 (laughter) -- the deputy director of the omb and the secretary of 
 health and human services.  i mean, that is common anytime you guys 
 write a story that has an unattributed quote from somebody in the 
 clinton administration, the headline is -- i'll look at it right 
 here, and ap story -- "clinton wants more money for spying."
 	     
 	     q	  what about his remark that if it were being 
 considered, he'd tell us about it?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  and the administration's concerned, 
 and he'd let you know.
 	     
 	     q	  and did he?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.  absolutely.  what did he say 
 this morning?
 	     
 	     q	  it had to be dragged out of you here yesterday.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it didn't have to be dragged out of 
 me.  we had the deputy director of the omb, we had the secretary of 
 health of human services say it was being considered.  that is his 
 administration.  that is his administration policy.
 	     
 	     q	  were these authorized trial balloons, or were they 
 orchestrated leaks?  i mean, what was the --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they were asked questions, they 
 answered the questions.
 	     
 	     q	  you're saying here that it didn't have to be 
 dragged out, that you more or less made it clear yesterday you were 
 considering it.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely.  i was very clear.  
 painfully clear.
 	     
 	     q	  was there a particular political strategy in making 
 it clear the administration is considering a new tax increase on tax 
 day?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, it was just this issue is being 
 considered.  they were asked if it was being considered; they 
 answered that it was being considered.
 	     
 	     q	  george, the new york times --
 	     
 	     q	  why do it yesterday?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they were asked.
 	     
 	     q	  the new york times reports today that secretary 
 reich and the chief economist at the labor department used apples and 
 oranges numbers in order to portray last month's unemployment figures 
 in a way that was supportive of the president's job stimulus bill, 
 but which turned out to be totally false.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if it was totally 
 false, but i think -- (laughter) -- the chief economist at the labor 
 department did grant that it was an inappropriate mixing, and they 
 say that. 
 	     
 	     q	  the question is, is the president concerned about 
 behavior that amounts to corrupting government data?  and what's he 
 doing about it, if so?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the chief economist has said that a 
 mistake was made, it won't happen again, and that's the end of the 
 matter.
 	     
 	     q	  isn't that the same information that goes to the 
 president?
 	     
 	     q	  if i could go back to the stimulus package --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  there's two separate pieces of 
 information.  i think that's where the confusion was.
 	     
 	     q	  when did you all first learn about this mistake 
 that was made?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i read the article this morning.
 	     
 	     q	  and as far as you know, is the president aware of 
 it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think so.
 	     
 	     q	  and was he aware of it before he read about it in 
 the new york times?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.  not to my knowledge.
 	     
 	     q	  did you ever hear about it before this morning?  
 anything?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i didn't.
 	     
 	     q	  wasn't the president given an erroneous spin on 
 this for his own purpose?  for his speeches, for his arguments?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well again, i'm not sure.  both 
 statements are true.  what the labor department has granted is that 
 mixing them in one sentence, essentially, was misleading.  they said 
 it was a mistake.  they said they wouldn't do it again.
 	     
 	     q	  did they drop it -- is this something that you 
 choose to spin or make an issue of?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  whenever fewer people are out of 
 work, we're gratified.  but that doesn't take away from the need to 
 get this jobs package going.
 	     
 	     q	  if i could go back to the stimulus package for a 
 minute.  you said that the president plans to come forward with an 
 amendment.  is the timetable still what it was -- that the amendment 
 would be laid down on monday and voted on on tuesday, or did he, in 
 the conversation with dole, talk about the possibility of putting 
 that off for a few more days to give more time for the discussion?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think at this point there's no 
 changes in the schedule at all.  i don't know that they discussed the 
 timing like that.
 	     
 	     q	  do you believe that you're closer or getting closer 
 this week than you were last week?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i believe that we're going 
 to pass a jobs package.  the president is prepared to make 
 adjustments in order to get that to happen.  i don't know where the 
 votes are on cloture at this particular time.  i don't know what's 
 going to happen until we have a vote.  but the president believes 
 deeply in this jobs package and wants to get it done.
 	     
 	     q	  has there been any indication that this situation 
 has changed?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're going to continue to work on 
 it.  we'll know when the votes are taken.
 	     
 	     q	  george, last week you said that there are -- or 
 various people in the administration were saying that you couldn't go 
 through dole, you were going to have to try and go around him because 
 he was immovable on this subject of a compromise, or at least the 
 compromise he wanted was not anything like the one that you could 
 accept.  this week you're talking to him.  is that because you've 
 realized that the peeling off effort wasn't going to work?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's because senator dole wanted 
 to talk to the president about the stimulus package.
 	     
 	     q	  he initiated the conversation?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  secretary reich this morning said that, in fact, 
 the president is not willing to compromise on this bill at all.  you 
 say he's making --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know that that's exactly 
 what he said.  i think he said he didn't have any indication that 
 there was any compromises yet or that there would be a compromise, 
 and the president doesn't want to compromise.  and the president 
 doesn't want to compromise.  but if he has to make adjustments to get 
 it through, he will.
 	     
 	     q	  officials here yesterday said that panetta was 
 working on a series of adjustments that might be made public before 
 the actual vote.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's possible.
 	     
 	     q	  today?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure exactly when that will 
 happen, but i think that it's very possible that we'll come forward 
 with some sort of a different package, or senate democrats will come 
 forward with some sort of a different package in order to get it 
 passed.
 	     
 	     q	  as we understood his conversations with dole, the 
 first one was some discussion of this and i'll get back to you 
 tonight with some details or some adjustments, or whatever the phrase 
 is.  did he offer him some details or some adjustments?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it's a question of how 
 detailed.  i mean, i think they had a general discussion about the 
 package last night, subsequent to their conversation yesterday 
 afternoon.  i believe that there will be follow-up discussions today 
 in the senate, not necessarily between the president and senator 
 dole.  and let me just reiterate, neither side has made specific 
 compromises at this date.  when we have something we'll let you know.  
 and i'm not suggesting that senator dole has accepted anything that 
 we've talked about or that we've offered anything in a hard way.
 	     
 	     q	  what are the follow-up discussions if not the 
 president and dole?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think senator mitchell is going 
 to talk to senator dole.
 	     
 	     q	  is that a threat?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  did the president say to senator dole, all right, 
 how about this number as an overall size, or did dole say to the 
 president, i can go as high as this?  did they talk numbers?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think it was a negotiation 
 in that respect.  it was more of a discussion about their positions.
 	     
 	     q	  did they discuss actual numbers?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm just not sure.  i know they 
 talked about the basic outlines of the packages.  i think they talked 
 about the programs they cared about.  i don't know if they got to the 
 level of this many x-billion dollars. 
 	     
 	     q	  does dole have to sign off before there is a 
 package?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, of course not.
 	     
 	     q	  did the white house have anything to do with the 
 protesters who showed up in new hampshire today where senator dole 
 was speaking?  was that in any way organized by --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not to my knowledge, no.
 	     
 	     q	  and has the president been in touch with senators 
 kohl or feingold?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think he's talked to them, 
 no.
 	     
 	     q	  george, is the president considering the more 
 palatable fact of having a national sales tax instead of having the 
 haves having to continuously pay for the have-nots?  and is he going 
 to scrap his proposed tax on the privileged few, with the haves 
 having to pay for the have-nots?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president believes deeply that 
 the tax rates on upper income americans, as he presented in his 
 budget, should go up.  and i think for the second half of your 
 question, i'll refer you to my briefing from yesterday.
 	     
 	     q	  george, on the subject of accuracy in information, 
 you suggested the other day that the stimulus package included money 
 that would solve the water problem in milwaukee.  apparently that is 
 not true.  it's actually waste water money.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's waste water money for 
 wisconsin, and some could go to milwaukee. 
 	     
 	     q	  but it would not affect the drinking water problem 
 because it's waste water money, right?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it would affect the water treatment 
 overall. 
 	     
 	     q	  but the implication from your statement the other 
 day was that it would help fix this disease problem in milwaukee now.  
 would you agree that's not the case?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure of the specifics.  i 
 know that it goes to the overall water treatment in wisconsin.
 	     
 	     q	  a leftover question from this morning, which was, 
 when did the president find out that the task force was deliberating 
 on a vat?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not sure exactly when.  i just 
 don't know.  i assume it came up over the last -- certainly between 
 the time that we had commented on in the past and two days ago.  
 	     
 	     q	  so sometime since march 25th?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's right.  i don't know 
 the exact date.
 	     
 	     q	  george, the president this morning mentioned that 
 some labor and business groups are for the vat tax.  apparently, the 
 national association of manufacturers talks about perhaps the vat tax 
 being okay if it replaces the btu tax.  so does the president feel 
 that perhaps this might be in place of some other tax he's proposed, 
 or is this totally in addition to the other taxes he's already 
 proposed?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think we've said all we have to 
 say about the vat at this point.  i mean, there's just no -- this is 
 being considered by the health care working groups, and that is all.  
 the president hasn't made any further decisions beyond that. 
 	     
 	     q	  but it would be to finance health care, it wouldn't 
 be to replace some other tax that finances -- it wouldn't replace the 
 income tax, for instance?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  there have been no discussions on 
 that.
 	     
 	     q	  in terms of getting a vat tax through congress, 
 senator dole's press release today said vat -- on tax day.  do you 
 think -- does it have a chance of getting through congress?  would it 
 have a chance?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i have no idea. 
 	     
 	     q	  is that a consideration whether you all put it 
 forward?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that would become a consideration 
 if the president were to decide to do it.  it's not in consideration 
 now.
 	     
 	     q	  you said at the beginning of the briefing that 
 circumstances had changed and that had caused the vat to now be under 
 consideration.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, what the president referred to 
 this morning.  these groups came forward and said this is something 
 that has to be considered.
 	     
 	     q	  those are the circumstances that have changed?  
 that's the only difference between now and when he emphatically ruled 
 it out that groups have asked it to be considered?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's what he said. 
 	     
 	     q	  is that true?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  was there, in fact, some understanding that sin 
 taxes would not produce enough money for the health care benefits?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm not going to get into the 
 deliberations.
 	     
 	     q	  but, george --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  what the consideration is, as 
 the president said, groups came forward and said this is something 
 you ought to consider.  the working groups are looking at it. 
 	     
 	     q	  is that the only thing that's changed since his 
 prior statement and your prior statement on the vat?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  can you explain how those groups -- how that 
 information got to him that groups wanted it?  was it just reading 
 the newspaper or did groups make presentations?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think the groups -- as you know, 
 the health care task force has met with dozens of groups.
 	     
 	     q	  but this is the president's knowledge that these 
 groups had come forward.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he was referring to what 
 was coming to the working groups.  obviously, there have also been 
 published positions in the newspapers.
 	     
 	     q	  have certain groups briefed him on the group's 
 presentations to them?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if they've briefed him 
 -- i mean, how detailed the briefings have been.    i know that the 
 working groups decided to look into this after being pressed by these 
 groups.
 	     
 	     q	  what kind of arguments did the groups make that 
 were persuasive enough that the president would change the position 
 that he had enunciated previously?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know, it's just they've had 
 longstanding positions that this would be a good way to finance 
 health care.
 	     
 	     q	  the president wasn't aware of those longstanding 
 positions?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he may have been at some level.  
 obviously, he's been a governor for a long time and he knows the 
 basic arguments for and against a vat tax.
 	     
 	     q	  what we're trying to figure out here -- you're 
 telling us that the only change, the only thing that affected this 
 change in the president's attitude toward the vat between february 
 and now --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president's attitude hasn't 
 necessarily changed.  i mean, he has not made a decision.
 	     
 	     q	  i know, but the president said that it was off the 
 table.  so did you.  and you're saying that the only thing that's 
 changed is the positions of these groups, except you're also 
 describing them as longstanding positions.  i don't see the change.  
 if these groups haven't had any change in their position that's been 
 made to the president --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, they've made the 
 presentations to the health care task force.
 	     
 	     q	  there's no relationship at all between the fact 
 that sin taxes that he had said -- suggested in february that he 
 favored will not produce enough revenue to finance --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think he ever suggested 
 that they would produce all the revenue.
 	     
 	     q	  well, he suggested that he thought that those were 
 appropriate ways to finance health care.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he did say that.  i don't know that 
 he said anything to refute that.
 	     
 	     q	  but, in fact, has the task force discovered that 
 there wouldn't be enough revenue from those taxes to finance the kind 
 of core benefits --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i don't think that the task 
 force ever suggested that there would.
 	     
 	     q	  george, if he advocated a vat tax, would that break 
 his promise not to raise taxes on the middle class to pay for his 
 programs?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i can't comment on a hypothetical 
 situation.
 	     	  
 	     q	  but does that promise -- would that promise not to 
 raise taxes on the middle class to pay for the programs prevent him 
 from seeking a vat tax?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president has made no decisions 
 on the vat tax.  when he does, we'll tell you and we'll explain the 
 implications then.
 	     
 	     q	  which specific groups can you cite -- business, 
 labor or otherwise -- whose recommendations to the health care task 
 force has prompted this consideration?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't have the specific.  i just 
 don't have that.
 	     
 	     q	  george, can you tell us to what extend these other 
 alternatives, for instance, the employer tax or the sin taxes or 
 other financing options are also still on the table and what these 
 options are?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, as members of the task force 
 and representatives of the working groups have said, they are looking 
 at a wide variety of options.  i think that ira magaziner said that 
 there are 20 different options under consideration.  but i'm not 
 going to comment --
 	     
 	     q	  what's the scope --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm just not going to comment on 
 them, no.
 	     
 	     q	  what's the scope of the need?  how much are you 
 talking about that has to be produced by one or a combination of the 
 --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's what the health care task 
 force is looking at.
 	     
 	     q	  since there's not going to be any briefing on the 
 miyazawa visit, two questions:  one, generally what does the 
 president hope to use that meeting for, but more specifically, is his 
 task complicated by the japanese anger over the vancouver note and 
 the remark about market access at the press conference?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the vancouver note?
 	     
 	     q	  does no mean yes.
 	     
 	     q	  yes and no.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i don't know.  i saw the 
 prime minister's press conference where he was asked the question 
 about that note and he gave a very gracious and complete answer when 
 he was asked the question.  the questions of trade are something that 
 certainly will be discussed between the prime minister and the 
 president.  there is obviously a trade imbalance between japan and 
 the u.s. that we want to do something about.
 	     
 	     q	  also in those comments the prime minister made he 
 suggested that the united states should come down heavy on him in 
 terms of trade.  are you going to oblige?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:   i think the president will state 
 our views on trade very clearly and our views on the trade deficit 
 very clearly.  i don't necessarily want to agree with your 
 characterization of the prime minister's comments.
 	     
 	     q	     that we need specific export targets, specific 
 numerical targets -- is that what he's going to discuss with 
 miyazawa?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they're going to have a broad 
 discussion of a wide range of trade issues.  i don't want to get into 
 those specifics until after the meeting.
 	     
 	     q	  why?
 	     
 	     q	   that's the crux of the issue, right?  whether or 
 not -- does the president believe that without specific numerical 
 targets, it is really, as he said in his press conference, sort of 
 hopeless that this is going to change very much?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president believes that we must 
 have pressure on japan to turn the trade imbalance around.  i do not 
 want to get into the specifics of how that would be done.
 	     
 	     q	  but does the president believe that their stimulus 
 package announced yesterday will rectify the imbalance?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think, first, the president wants 
 to get a full briefing on the stimulus package from prime minister 
 miyazawa himself, and then he'll make the comment on it.
 	     
 	     q	  how about the russian aid package?  there seems to 
 be some confusion about how the u.s. views that, secretary 
 christopher saying -- or bentsen saying the japanese may need to do 
 more, the japanese saying that that's not what they heard?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, we're going to continue to 
 work with all our allies in the g-7, and we're going to continue to 
 press for help for russian reform, russian democratic reform.  and i 
 think that, so far, we had a very good announcement out of tokyo and 
 we're going to continue to work with our allies for bilateral 
 packages.
 	     
 	     q	  do you think the japanese need to do more?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're going to continue to work 
 with all our allies to do as much as we can.
 	     
 	     q	  secretary christopher was asked today on the today 
 show this morning what he thought of margaret thatcher's comments on 
 the bosnia policy.  and he said, "it's a rather emotional response."  
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  over an emotional issue.
 	     
 	     q	  right -- to an emotional problem.  does the white  
 house condone that kind of remark?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that secretary 
 christopher's remarks speaks for itself.  the president believes also 
 that this is a deeply troubling situation that we're trying to find 
 answers for. 
 	     
 	     q	  but that specific -- "rather emotional response" -- 
 specific term?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, it speaks for itself.
 	     
 	     q	  in connection with that, doesn't it seem that with 
 the numbers of people who are being killed at this very moment, is it 
 good american policy to put off some decisions that might be made now 
 to help boris yeltsin win a referendum?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  for example?
 	     
 	     q	  to take stronger action, to take military action -- 
 air strikes, anything that can be done?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president believes that what 
 must be done now is to push harder for sanctions.  he is also -- as 
 you know, the administration has been discussing lifting the arms 
 embargo.  he believes those are the appropriate ways to increase 
 pressure at this time.
 	     
 	     q	  what is your response to the critics who would say 
 that the u.s. is now stymied by trying to help boris yeltsin retain 
 the presidency?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they're wrong.  we're pressing hard 
 for the serbs to come to the negotiating table.  we're pressing hard 
 for increased sanctions, and we're talking to our allies about the 
 arms embargo.
 	     
 	     q	  you were putting great store in vance and owen 
 getting people to agree to that.  now, vance and owen have both said 
 that military force to some extent would be acceptable.  does that 
 change your thinking?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  clearly, we're going to listen to 
 whatever people who have put so much time into a situation have to 
 say.  but at this point, the president is moving forward on sanctions 
 and talking about the arms embargo.
 	     
 	     q	  a follow-up on a dee dee comment this morning.  she 
 said she would be able to provide some administration officials who 
 could document the effect the sanctions are having in bosnia.  are 
 you going to be able to do that, or do you have anything --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think that's what she said.
 	     
 	     q	  that's exactly what she said.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think that's true.  but 
 what she said -- we would look into the situation of what kind of 
 evidence can be provided in bosnia.  obviously, if there are 
 connections between the bosnian serbs and the serbs in belgrade and 
 we are tightening the screws on the serbs in belgrade, that will have 
 an effect over time.  i do not know day by day, minute by minute, 
 what kind of help is being given between the two and what the exact 
 effect has been.   but, clearly, we are slowing the shipment of goods 
 into belgrade.  we are having an effect on the serbs there.  what 
 kind of effect that will eventually have on the bosnian serbs i don't 
 know.  but one thing i would say is if it were having no effect at 
 all, i don't know why they'd be fighting it so much.
 	     
 	     q	  are the first lady's tax returns going to be 
 released?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think there's a joint tax return.  
 and it will be probably later today.
 	     
 	     q	  is the president considering signing an executive 
 order banning discrimination against homosexuals in the federal work 
 force as part of the gay rights march here next week?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think there's any proposal 
 for that at this time, not that i know of.
 	     
 	     q	  it's something that the president promised during 
 the campaign that he would do.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i have not seen any -- i don't 
 think it's anything that's on his plate right now.
 	     
 	     q	  is he meeting with gay rights leaders at any point 
 on this issue?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know about on this issue.  
 i assume that he'll meet with representatives of the gay and lesbian 
 community sometime soon, as he meets with representatives of lots of 
 different groups and communities.
 	     
 	     q	  do you know if that's scheduled --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's probably going to be tomorrow.
 	     
 	     q	  probably going to be tomorrow?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  it's a good thing you asked.
 	     
 	     q	  who's probably going to be there?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.
 	     
 	     q	  how long --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.  that's all i know.
 	     
 	     q	  do you know if it's at 3:00 p.m. tomorrow?  
 (laughter.)
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know what time it is.  i 
 don't even know for sure if it's going to be tomorrow.
 	     
 	     q	  environmental groups have asked him to make a major 
 speech next week of some kind.  is that going to happen, do you know?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if they've asked, but 
 i think the president has always planned, as he did last year, to 
 give a speech on earth day and i expect that he will.  if it's not 
 exactly on earth day, it might be a day before or something like 
 that.
 	     
 	     q	  is he planning to sign or announce the signing of 
 the biodiversity treaty in connection with earth day?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i don't know the specific 
 timing of something like that, but it's certainly something under 
 discussion and something we've been working on.
 	     
 	     q	  campaign finance reform?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we're working on it.
 	     
 	     q	  do you think it will be next week?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm just not sure.
 	     
 	     q	  the biodiversity treaty is something you're working 
 on?  i missed the question.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, something we're working on.  
 he asked if it was ready to be signed, and i said i didn't know 
 anything about that but it's something we've certainly been working 
 on.
 	     
 	     q	  do you know what organizations might be represented 
 in this meeting with the gay and lesbian groups?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't.
 	     
 	     q	  do you know if he is going to reconsider being out 
 of town on the day of the march?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's got to be at the senate 
 meeting in jamestown, and i believe he's also going to be giving a 
 speech to the american association of newspaper publishers in boston 
 on sunday, as he did last year.
 	     
 	     q	  would you have told us if she had not pressed you 
 on the question?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  on what?
 	     
 	     q	  on the gays.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  when we went through the 
 president's schedule for the day, certainly.
 	     
 	     q?	    george, what day is the publisher's speech?  is 
 that sunday?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it's a sunday.
 	     
 	     q	  and saturday he'll be in jamestown?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  so you're just going to be in jamestown for one 
 day?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, i'm not sure.  i don't know how 
 long the senate thing goes.  it might go overnight.  i just don't 
 know.
 	     
 	     q	  you would have made the gay meeting public, right?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm certain if we had the meeting 
 -- i don't know about open to the press, but we would have told you 
 about it.
 	     
 	     q	  i mean, because it is, as far as i can tell, the 
 first time in history a president has met in the oval office with --  
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i didn't say it was going to be in 
 the oval office.  (laughter.)  but i didn't -- i'm not say that it's 
 not, but i didn't say that it was.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	     at the white house in the bush administration 
 gay officials were invited to a bill signing ceremony and the white 
 house had to repudiate having done that.  so i just wanted to make 
 sure --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, the president wouldn't do 
 anything like that.
 	     
 	     q	  certainly not.
 	     
 	     q	  what marching orders did the president give to 
 general vessey?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  they had a very good discussion for 
 about half an hour today.  he wanted -- the most important thing was 
 he had a full accounting for american pows and mias.  he will 
 obviously look into the circumstances surrounding this new document.  
 the president stressed that he wanted the fullest possible accounting 
 and said that only when we have that can we even consider any changes 
 in our policy towards vietnam.  he'll be looking at vietnam's 
 response to the questions raised by the document and he'll also look 
 into investigations on discrepancy cases, increased efforts on 
 remains, implementing trilateral investigations -- and access to 
 military archives.  
 	     
 	     and ambassador toon also briefed the president on the 
 activities of the joint commission and on the document.
 	     
 	     q	  vietnam says it's a fake.  what is the dod analysis 
 at this stage?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it's not completed yet, and it's 
 also the first thing that general vessey will bring up with the 
 vietnamese.
 	     
 	     q	  a number of defense officials have been saying that 
 they think that the 600 or so prisoners referred to are, in fact, 
 non-americans that the vietnamese had captured who they referred to 
 as americans from time to time.  do people -- 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we don't have any final 
 determination.  we're going to wait for the complete review; when we 
 have it, we'll make a judgment.
 	     
 	     q	  i know you don't have any final determination, but 
 given all of the intense public interest in this, do you think that 
 that's a likely possibility?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i just don't want to characterize 
 it in any way until the review is complete.
 	     
 	     q	  george, was there a topic scheduled for the speech 
 in boston?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no. 
 	     
 	     q	  is the president going to have a press conference 
 tomorrow with miyazawa?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think so, but i'm not positive.  
 yes, i expect, yes.
 	     
 	     q	  was toon in with vessey?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes. 
 	     
 	     q	  he was in on the meeting?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  what was the question?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  was ambassador toon in with vessey, 
 and the answer is yes. 
 	     
 	     q	  do you have any response to the wall street journal 
 report this morning the president's distressed about some of his 
 press clippings and that perhaps he's distressed with you about that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  well, i do have a response.  i 
 think the article was highly misleading to the extent that it implied 
 that the president has had restricted access to the press.  i would 
 point out that he's answered 358 questions on 77 occasions, more than 
 any of his predecessors. i would also point out it also --
 	     
 	     q	  how many questions?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  three hundred fifty-eight, on 77 
 occasions.
 	     
 	     q	  how many were while he was jogging?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, no, that's actually a very 
 good question, andrea.  and i would point out further that the 
 article also implied that these questions were only answered at 
 tightly controlled photo opportunities, which is just patently false.  
 he's had 13 press conferences in either the east room, the oval 
 office or the roosevelt room or the briefing room, in addition to 
 questions taken at photo opportunities, and that is only the --
 	     
 	     q	  oval office press conference -- when was that? 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's answered questions in the --
 east room.  he's had five in the east room, he's had one in the oval 
 office, he's had one in the rose garden, he's had one or two in the 
 roosevelt room.  and this is just to the white house, washington 
 press corps.  in addition to that, he's had 17 interviews with local 
 television anchors.  he's met with the editorial board of the 
 portland oregonian.  he's had an hour-long interview with dan rather. 
 he's had interviews with local press from california, florida and 
 connecticut --
 	     
 	     q	  can you address the question of the attitude?  the 
 article implies that he doesn't --
 	     
 	     q	  why doesn't he like us?  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  did you really get blamed for that post story?
 	     
 	     q	  the story is that you -- are you held responsible 
 for it.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think i'm going to comment 
 about this.
 	     
 	     q	  are you denying that the president has shown 
 displeasure publicly?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i am not commenting on the 
 discussions between the president and myself.
 	     
 	     q	  did the president write that letter to chris 
 webber?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  what?
 	     
 	     q	  the letter to the university of michigan basketball 
 player?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, yes.
 	     
 	     q	  that is an authentic letter?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  since the president first talked about the vat in 
 february, he said at the time that he thought there probably should 
 be exceptions made in basic necessities such as food and clothing.  
 does he still hold that position given the impact it could have?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i just can't comment on a 
 proposal he hasn't made.
 	     
 	     q	  george, does the president have some agenda for 
 this meeting with the gay leaders tomorrow?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i think it will just a 
 general meeting on the wide range of issues that they care about 
 including aids and other issues -- civil rights.
 	     
 	     q	  the military issue?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm certain it will come up.
 	     
 	     q	  is he using this event to name the aids --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think so.
 	     
 	     q	  george, what specifically is the president doing to 
 prepare for tomorrow's meeting with the prime minister miyazawa?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he's had briefing memos.  he's had 
 general discussions with members of the treasury department, the 
 trade representative and others.
 	     
 	     q	     report yet?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if he has the report 
 referred to in the times, but ambassador kantor was here to brief him 
 today.
 	     
 	     q	  he was?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  does he intend to use any of these instances that 
 --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i don't know that the 
 report's been presented.  but obviously, the president will press 
 hard in any case where he thinks that a violation has occurred.
 	     
 	     q	  in terms of the wall street journal, the thrust was 
 that there's a real schism here -- a hostility.  do you think he 
 feels that way?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not at all.  as i said on the 
 record in the article, i think the president likes reporters.  again, 
 i think that the thrust of the article was still misleading.  the 
 thrust of the article was that in some way, some attitude which the 
 president may or may not have is affecting access when, in fact, he 
 has the most open, accessible administration than have any in recent 
 history.
 
 	     q	  can we come up to your office?  (laughter.)
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  if you're invited.  
 	     
 	     the press:  thank you.
 
                                  end                    1:34 p.m. edt
 	     
 #57-04/15
 	     
 
 
 
 