
  
  the following was posted and no doubt retyped by yigal ahrens and considering 
  the importance of the issue and the almost total blackout except in 
  california, i am reposting to other appropriates groups.
  
  
  
  from la times, friday, april 9, 1993.  p. a1.
  
  evidence of adl spy operation seized by police
  
  by richard c. paddock, times staff writer
  
  san francisco -- police on thursday served search warrants on the
  anti-defamation league here and in los angeles, seizing evidence of a
  nationwide intelligence network accused of keeping files on more than
  950 political groups, newspapers and labor unions and as many as
  12,000 people.
  
  describing the spy operation in great detail, san francisco
  authorities simultaneously released voluminous documents telling how
  operatives of the anti-defamation league searched through trash and
  infiltrated organizations to gather intelligence on arab-american,
  right-wing and what they called "pinko" organizations.
  
  representatives of the anti-defamation league, a well-known
  organization in the u.s. jewish community dedicated to fighting
  anti-semitism, declined detailed comment thursday but denied breaking
  any laws.
  
  police allege that the organization maintains undercover operatives to
  gather political intelligence in at least seven cities, including los
  angeles and san francisco.
  
  groups that were the focus of the spy operation span the political
  spectrum, including such groups as the ku klux klan, the white aryan
  resistance, operation rescue, greenpeace, the national assn. for the
  advancement of colored people, the united farm workers and the jewish
  defense league.  also on the list were mills college, the board of
  directors of san francisco public television station kqed and the san
  francisco bay guardian newspaper.
  
  people who were subjects of the spy operation included former
  republican rep. pete mccloskey, jailed political extremist lyndon h.
  larouche and los angeles times foreign correspondent scott kraft, who
  is based in south africa.
  
  authorities said much of the material collected by the groups was
  confidential information obtained illegally from law enforcement
  agencies.  they also alleged that data on some individuals and
  organizations was sold separately to the south african government.
  
  in addition to allegations of obtaining confidential information from
  police, the anti-defamation league could face a total of 48 felony
  counts for not properly reporting the employment of its chief west
  coast spy, roy bullock, according to the affidavit filed to justify
  the search warrant.
  
  the anti-defamation league disguised payments to bullock for more than
  25 years by funneling $550 a week to beverly hills attorney bruce i.
  hochman, who then paid bullock, according to the documents released in
  san francisco.  hochman, a former president of the jewish federation
  council of greater los angeles and one of the state's leading tax
  attorneys, will be out of the city until late next week and could not
  be reached for comment, his office said.
  
  until 1990, hochman, a former u.s. prosecutor, also was a member of a
  panel appointed by then-sen. pete wilson to secretly make initial
  recommendations on new federal judges in california.  hochman is a
  former regional president of the anti-defamation league.
  
  the league, which initially cooperated with police, has denied
  repeatedly that its intelligence-gathering operation broke any laws.
  league officials will not confirm or deny whether bullock was an
  employee and have said they simply traded information with police
  departments about people who might be involved in hate crimes.
  
  but in an affidavit filed to obtain warrants for thursday's searches,
  san francisco police alleged that "adl employees were apparently less
  than truthful" in providing information during an earlier search
  conducted without a warrant.
  
  david lehrer, executive director of the los angeles adl office, said
  the organization has not violated the law.  "there is nothing
  nefarious about how we operate or what we have done," he said.  "our
  record speaks for itself."
  
  the police affidavit contends that lehrer had sole control of a secret
  fund used to pay for "fact-finding operations."  lehrer, according to
  the documents, signed checks from the account under the name l.
  patterson.
  
  an adl official said the account was used to pay for subscriptions to
  a wide variety of extremist publications that might balk at sending
  them directly to the anti-defamation league.
  
  bullock, 58, who has been collecting intelligence for the adl for
  nearly 40 years, defended his efforts during a lengthy interview with
  san francisco police.  he said that he gathered names from many
  sources and entered them into his computer under headings such as
  "skins" and "pinkos," but that did not necessarily mean that they were
  under surveillance.
  
  "i might never see or call up on 99% of them again," bullock said.
  "and it doesn't mean anything that they're in the files.  it's not a
  threat to anyone's civil rights that a name appears in my files under,
  say, 'pinko.'"
  
  in recent years, bullock worked closely with san francisco police
  officer tom gerard, who fled to the phillippines last fall after he
  was questioned by the fbi in the case.
  
  a former cia employee, gerard supplied bullock with criminal records
  and department of motor vehicles information such as home addresses,
  vehicle registration, physical characteristics and drivers license
  photographs.
  
  using files gathered for the anti-defamation league, gerard and
  bullock also provided information to the south african government,
  receiving $16,000 over four years, the documents show.
  
  the file on times staff writer kraft, which was apparently sold to the
  south african government, provides some insight into the hit-and-miss
  nature of the spy operation.
  
  the file notes that kraft's articles "appear frequently in the times
  and are well researched and written," but little else about the file
  is accurate.  the brief entry confuses the times' kraft with another
  scott kraft and provides the south african government with the wrong
  kraft's physical description, photograph and other personal
  information.
  
  nevertheless, the documents provide illuminating details of how
  bullock for decades infiltrated all manner of organizations, from
  skinheads to left-wing radicals, searching regularly through the trash
  of target groups.  using anti-defamation league funds, he also ran his
  own paid informants under code names such as "scott" and "scumbag."
  
  he worked closely with police officers up and down the coast,
  exchanged information with the fbi and worked with federal agencies,
  including the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms.
  
  it was bullock's work as a paid informant for the fbi -- while spying
  on behalf of the anti-defamation league and the south african
  government -- that proved his undoing. the fbi learned that he was an
  agent of a foreign government and began investigating, leading to the
  probe of the anti-defamation league's intelligence network.  the
  anti-defamation league employed undercover operatives to gather
  information in los angeles, san francisco, new york, washington,
  chicago, st. louis and atlanta, according to the affidavit and
  investigators.  joining san francisco police in searching league
  offices and a los angeles bank were investigators from the office of
  san francisco dist. atty. arlo smith and the state franchise tax
  board.  the los angeles police department, which earlier refused to
  cooperate with the investigation, was informed of the searches in los
  angeles but not invited to participate.  investigators suspect that
  some confidential information in the anti-defamation league files may
  have come from los angeles police officers.
  
  
  
  from los angeles times, saturday, april 10, 1993.  p. a23.
  
  adl vows to cooperate with spy investigation
  
  by richard c. paddock, times staff writer.
  
  san francisco -- the anti-defamation league defended its record as a
  civil rights group friday and said it will cooperate with authorities
  who are investigating whether the organization collected confidential
  police information on citizens and groups.
  
  but san francisco dist. atty. arlo smith said that anti-defamation
  league employees involved in intelligence gathering could face many
  felony counts of receiving confidential files, eavesdropping, tax
  violations and conspiracy.
  
  police have accused the anti-defamation league of not being truthful
  about its spying operations, which collected information on more than
  12,000 individuals and 950 political groups across the political
  spectrum.
  
  hundreds of pages of documents released by prosecutors thursday show
  that the adl maintained a nationwide intelligence network and kept
  files on political figures.
  
  even so, smith suggested that if the anti-defamation league shut down
  its spy operation, prosecutors would take that into account when
  deciding what charges to file.
  
  in a statement released in washington, national director abraham h.
  foxman described the adl as "a jewish defense agency which has fought
  to protect all minorities from bigotry and discrimination for 80
  years."
  
  foxman said the organization is regarded as a credible source on
  extremist groups and has a tradition of routinely providing
  information to police, journalists, academics, government officials
  and the public.  it has never been the policy of the adl to obtain
  information illegally, he said.
  
  "like other journalists, in order to protect the confidentiality and
  physical safety of its sources, adl will not comment on the nature or
  identity of any source of information," foxman said.
  
  the anti-defamation league refused to acknowledge that one of its
  longtime employees, roy bullock, was anything more than "a private
  individual who is alleged to be an adl 'informant.'"
  
  among the documents released by prosecutors were detailed statements
  showing how the adl funneled weekly payments to bullock through
  beverly hills attorney bruce i. hochman.
  
  "roy would penetrate organizations and needed this arrangement to be
  distanced from adl," hochman told a san francisco police investigator.
  hochman could not be reached friday at his home or office for comment.
  
  despite the anti-defamation league's assertion that it will cooperate
  with authorities, san francisco police said the group did not turn
  over all pertinent documents during a voluntary search of the group's
  offices in los angeles and san francisco last fall.
  
  a second round of searches thursday, this time with search warrants,
  produced a vast quantity of records, primarily dealing with financial
  transactions, smith said.  further searches may be necessary and it
  will be at least a month before any charges are filed, he said.
  
  "the investigation, of course, will go wherever the facts lead us,"
  the district attorney said.
  --
  yigal arens
  usc/isi                                                tv made me do it!
  arens@isi.edu
 js
 
 