
 
 
 
 > top ten signs that it's the age of aquarius on pennsylvania avenue
 >
 >
 
 >10. men in uniform are persona non grata in the home of our commander in
 >    chief.
 >
 >9.  algore's enviro-mentalism will make the clean air act look like an
 >    industrial policy.
 >
 >8.  higher taxes are once again the prescription for all that ails america.
 >
 >7.  tax dodging is unpatriotic; draft dodging is a symbol of pride.
 >
 >6.  beaded curtains hang from the oval office windows.
 >
 >5.  socialism may be dead in the ex-soviet union but we are told to prepare
 >    for the nationalization of our health care resources. (these people
 >    must be inhaling something.)
 >
 >4.  not quite free love but eating flowers is considered healthy.
 >
 >3.  the feminazis have a president in the white house whether the rest of
 >    us realize it or not.
 >
 >2.  slick may be the first draft dodger to send american troops into
 >    combat.
 >
 >1.  slick may be unpopular with middle-class americans, but he's a big hit
 >    on campus with the professorial class.
 >
 >
 >
 >copyright (c) edward a. ipser, jr., 1993
 >
 
 here's my own top ten response to mr. ipser's list
 
 
 10.  it's about time we have a president that might actually stand up to the
      military.  our men and women in uniform must learn that the world does not
      revolve around them, and that one of the things they're out there defending
      is our right to be critical of them, even denounce them.
 
 9.   let me explain something to you.  environmental policy and industrial
      policy must go hand in hand.  our nation, and indeed, our planet cannot
      afford to continue ignoring this as was done over the last twelve years.
      our industrial/environmental position has been downright shameful! we
      must have active government support of the key industries such as,
      telecommunications, microelectronics, medical, biotech, and environmental
      tech.  meanwhile weed out old, inneficient, high-polution, industries
      that are better left to other nations.  this will make us richer, help
      produce new jobs, and help the environment.  to give credit where credit
      is due, i heard a lot of this in a speech by senator john kerry (d-ma)
      tonite.  in addition, it's time we get really, really serious about 
      issues like overpopulation, globabl warming, and ozone depletion.  the
      planet on which we live should be our utmost priority!
 
 8.   it just so happens that that it takes money to make this country work,
      to provide the services that people need, and to help solve the problems
      that need to be solved.  granted, some things can probably be done more
      efficiently for less money, and should be.  but some things are going to
      cost more money and i'm sick and tired of hearing everyone whining about
      taxes all the time.  you want to live in my country, you pay your fair
      share!
 
 7.   i can't believe what hypocrites people are when they ask people to give
      up their lives for their country and then complain about taxes.  if you're
      willing to send me off to die for some stupid obsession with fighting an
      enemy which at best doesn't affect us and at worst really should be our
      friend, then you have no right to tell me you shouldn't pay taxes!
 
 6.   hey, i think the beaded curtains add a lovely 60's-esque touch!
 
 5.   look, canada, europe, and japan manage to provide health care for their
      citizens (and, yes, basic health is a human right which people are
      entitled to).  if these nations aren't capitalist enough for you, then
      i guess we've found something better than capitalism!  there is nothing
      sacred about the capitalist system, and if something, be it socialism
      or anything else, works better, then i say let capitalism die.
 
 4.   make love, not war!
 
 3.   contrary to popular belief, it is possible to be a male and a feminist
      at the same time.  to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity
      to a majority of the population is just plain wrong, and trying to force
      them into some sort of tradition role is even worse.  women certainly 
      have as much to offer this world as men, and the day that gender
      discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the revolutions of
      the past few centuries seem like reform bills.  i look forward to it.
 
 2.   see number 10.
 
 1.   hey man, acadamia rules!!
 
         
 
     -amar chaudhary
 
      peace, land, at matzoh! 
      "ac in dc in 2008!"
 
 none of the opinions here necessary reflect the opinions of yale university or
 anyone or anything associated with it, except for me, of course :)
 
 please post reponses or send them to chaudhary-amar@cs.yale.edu
 
 
 