
 
 the article that follows was taken from the wednesday, april 14, 1993
 issue of usa today ("drug use up among u.s. eighth-graders" by mike
 snider, p. 6d).
 
     a new national survey says drugs are easier to get, more teens are
     using them and fewer deem drug use as risky. 
 
     for the last two years, government officials have trumpeted results
     from the national high school survey as signs that the drug war is
     being won.  but this year, officials are retreating - drug use by
     eighth-graders has risen, according to the survey of 50,000 students
     nationwide.
 
     possible reason for the increase:  more experimentation.  why?  if
     drug use dropped during the '80s, eventually some students will
     have fewer "drug-using contemporaries" who act as examples of
     substance abuse's drawbacks, says social psychologist lloyd johnston,
     one of the survey authors.  each new wave of youths "must be given
     the knowledge, skills and motivation to resist using these drugs,"
     johnston says.
 
     this type of resurgence "is possible," says eileen shiff, author of
     "experts advise parents" (delta, $14.95).  but that's not the issue,
     she says.  the prevalence of alcohol and drugs among teens today
     could result in more alcoholic adults decades from now.
 
     aggravating the problem:  baby boomer parents - who experimented with
     drugs and alcohol as teens - trying to be friends, not parents, to
     their children.  "i've even seen parents serving kegs of beer" to
     their underage kids and friends, shiff says.  for a recent graduation,
     shiff and other parents organized an all-night, "lock-in" party where
     no booze or drugs were allowed.  "we need to fulfill that parental
     role, otherwise the peer group takes over," she says.
 
     officials may "talk about the war on drugs, but they really haven't
     done anything that i've seen," says suzanne linkous, scottsdale,
     ariz., 16, a volunteer who talks with teens about drugs, dating and
     other issues on a peer counseling and suicide hot line.  linkous, a
     member of usa today's teen panel, says "there's always going to be
     experimentation" with drugs.
 
     a real war on drugs could be waged "education-wise," she says.  but
     "some don't want to give kids the facts.  they think it will give
     them ideas; it's the same with birth control.  i think you should
     give the kids the information or have it accessible" through classes,
     pamphlets and speakers, she says.
 
     education efforts need to start as soon as kids get in school - in
     kindergarten, says dallas owens, 17, teen panelist from miami shores,
     fla.  "i remember in kindergarten, i used to see (drugs).  i think
     kids in the 10th and 12th grades have already made up their minds
     (about using drugs)," he says.
 
     scare tactics in public service announcements aren't working; only
     one commercial has gotten it right, he says.  the commercial opens
     with two "good-looking girls" in the restroom talking about having
     no prom date.  then they take a hit off a joint.  "that hits home
     because it's not attractive," he says.  "you can't be doing drugs if
     you want somebody to like you."
 
 
     adolescents' choices
 
     drugs used by eighth graders in the last month:
                       estimated, per 100 students
                              1991     1992   pct. chg.
     alcohol                  25.1     26.1        +4%
     cigarettes               14.3     15.5        +8%
     marijuana                 3.2      3.7       +16% 
     amphetamines              2.6      3.3       +27%
     lsd                       0.6      0.9       +50%
     cocaine                   0.5      0.7       +40%
     crack                     0.3      0.5       +67%
 
     source:  university of michigan institute for social research,
     1993 report
 
 
 scott kennedy,  brewer and patriot
 
 before:  "david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
           the bible through the barrel of a gun..."  --atf spokesman
 after:   "[the atf] is a cheap thug who interprets
           [the constitution] through the barrel of a gun..."  --me
 
 
 