
 the following statement was released
 on february 27,1992 by the science &
 environmental policy project
 
 as independent scientists researching atmosphere and climate problems, we are 
 concerned by the agenda for unced, the united nations conference on 
 environment and development, being developed by environmental and  activists 
 groups and certain political leaders. this so called "earth summit" is 
 scheduled to convene in  brazil in june 1992 and aims to impose a system of 
 global envionmental regulations, including onerous taxes on energy fuels, on 
 the population of the united states and other industrialized nations.
 such policy initiatives derive from highly uncetain scientific theories. they 
 are based on the unsupported assumption that catastrophic global warming 
 follows from the burning of fossill fuels and requires immediate action. we 
 do not agree. 
 a survey of u.s. atmospheric scientists, conducted in the summer of 1991, 
 confirms that there is  no consesensus about the cause of the slight warming 
 observed during the past century. a recently published research paper even 
 suggests sunspot variability (which is directly proportional to solar 
 activity),  rather  than a rise in greenhouse gases is responsible for the 
 global temperature increases and decreases recoded since about 1880.
 futhermore, the majority of scientific participants in the survey agreed that 
 the theoretical climate climate models used to predict a future warming 
 cannot be relied upon and are not validated by the existing climate record. 
 yet all predictions are based on such theoretical models.
 finally, agriculturalits generally agree that any increase in carbon dioxide 
 levels from fossil fuels burning has beneficial effects on most crops and on 
 world food supply.
 we are disturbed that activists, anxious to stop energy and economic growth, 
 are pushing ahead with drastic policies without taking notice of recent 
 changes in the underlying science. we fear that the rush to impose global 
 regulations will have catastrophic impacts on the world economy, on jobs, 
 standards of living, and health care, with the most severe consequences 
 falling on developing countries and the  poor.
 david b. aubrey, phd, senior scintist, woods  hole oceanographic institute. 
 nathaniel b. guttman, phd, research physical scientist, national climatic 
 data center. hugh b. ellsaesser, phd, meteorologist, lawerence livermore 
 national laboratory. richard lindzen, phd, center for meteorology and 
 physical meteorolgy, massachusetts institute of technology. robert c. 
 balling, phd, director, laboratory of climatology, arizona state university.
 patrick micheals, phd, assoc. professor of environmental sciences, 
 universityy of virginia. roger pielke, phd, professor of atmospheric science, 
 colorado state university. micheal garstang, phd, professor of meteorology, 
 university of virginia. sherwood p. idso, phd, research physicist, u.s. water 
 conservation laboratory.
 lev s. gandin phd, visiting scientist, national center for atmospheric 
 research. john a. mcginley, chief, forecast research group, forecast systems 
 laboratory, noaa. h. jean thiebaux, phd, research scientist, national 
 meterological center, national weather service, noaa. kenneth v. beard, phd, 
 professor of atmospheric physics, university of illinois. paul w. mielke, jr. 
 phd, professor, department of statistics, colorado state university. thomas 
 lockhart, meteorological standards institute.
 peter f. giddings, meterologist, weather service director. hazen a. bedke, 
 meteoroligist, former regional director, national weather service.
 
 
 gabriel t. csanady, phd, eminent professor, old dominion university. roy 
 leep, executive weather director, gillet weather data services. terrance j. 
 clark, meteorologist, u.s. air force. neil l. frank, phd, meteorologist, 
 national weather service. bruce a. boe, phd, director, north dakota 
 atmospheric resource board. andrew detweiler, phd, assoc. professor, 
 institute of atmospheric sciences, south dakota school of mines and 
 technology.
 robert m. cunningham, consulting meteorologist, fellow, american 
 meteorological society. stephen r. hanna, phd, sigma research corporation, 
 elliot abrams, meteoroligist, senior vice president, accuweather, inc. 
 william e. reifsnyder, phd, consulting meteorologist, professor emeritus, 
 forest meteorology, yale university. david w. reylnolds, research 
 meteorologist. jerry a. williams, meteorologist, president, ocean routes, 
 inc.
 lee w. eddington, meteorologist, geophysics division, pacific missile test 
 center.werner a braum, phd, former dean, college of arts & sciences, florida 
 state university.david p. rodgers, phd, assoc. professor of research 
 oceanography, scripps institution of oceanograghy. brian fiedler, phd, asst 
 professor of meteorology, university of oaklahoma.
 edward a. brandes, meterologist. melvyn shapiro, chief of meteorological 
 research wave propagation laboratory, noaa. joesph zabransky, jr., associate 
 professor of meteorology, plymouth state college. james a. moore, project 
 manager, research applications program, national center for atmospheric 
 research. daniel j mcnaughton, ensr consultating and engineering. brian 
 sussman, meteorologist, fellow, american meteorologist, fellow, american 
 meteorological society. h read mcgrath, phd, meteorologist. robert e. 
 zabrecky, meteorologist.
 william  m. porch, phd, atmospheric physicist, los alamos national 
 laboratory. earle r. williams, phd, associate profesor of meteorology, dept. 
 of earth, atmospheric, and planetary sciences, massachusetts institute of 
 technology. s. fred singer, phd, atmospheric physsicist, university of 
 virginia, director, science & environmental policy project. (affilitions 
 listed are for identification purposes only).
 
 ------
 techie@cellar.org (william a bacon)
 the cellar bbs - (215) 539-3043
 