
 jpr1@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (james p. reynolds) writes:
 
 >peope just doesn't get it.  the current health care system is a cancer which is
 >killing our economic well-being.  costs are still rising 10 percent a year
 >even as americans by the tens of millions go without, or are forced into
 >managed-care programs, which are certainly pretty socialized already if you
 >ask me.
 
 >a couple of months ago i posted a message asking any hillary-bashers to please
 >come forward and present (no gimmicks, straight talk) just how they would set
 >about keeping costs down.  i didn't get a single answer.
 
     the first thing i would do would be to disband medicare and medicade!  they
 are a primary reason why health care costs are going up.  to cover the people
 that are currently on these programs, i would sell their coverage in blocks
 to insurance companies.  the private companies would bid to get these large
 blocks of people, and prices would go down.
 
     to get away from strong federal control on health care, i would pass off
 more control to the states.  everyone is always spewing forth about how 
 wonderful hawaii is doing.  well, how about giving some other states incentive
 to try their own plans
 
     what i would not do is try to implement some far reaching federal program
 program to cover all americans, because this is the surest way to fail!
 
 
 >how can anyone read the news, live under our system, and not see these faults?
 >how can we deal with the deficit, our cities, our educational system, our
 >infrastrucure, aids, modernizing our industry, etc. if we don't quit throwing
 >away money which could be used to solve those problems?
 
    one sure way to stop throwing money away is to stop giving so much to the
 federal government.  our federal taxes should be slashed, and our state taxes
 increased.  a strong central government always fails.  give power back to the
 states/counties/cities, where it belongs.
 
 >america needs health care reform now.  don't just sit there and hillary-bash,
 >inform yourself!
 
   the more i inform myself, the more i want to hillary-bash.  :->
 
 