
 in article <15445@optilink.com>, cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer)
 wrote:
 > unless, of course, the problem is that homosexuality is a form
 > of mental disorder, caused by childhood sexual abuse, as a number of
 > recent works suggest.
 
 mr. cramer, when are you going to stop indulging in such blatant lies?
 this is not only not true, you know damned well that it's not true.  none
 of your research supports this; no mental health expert has taken this
 position.  this is *your own* opinion which is not backed up by any
 research or any knowledge.
 
 according to one survey, done in san francisco, the number of heterosexual
 men who were molested as children was on the order of 5%.  the number of
 homosexual men who were molested as children was on the order of 8%.
 source:  a book on sexual abuse of children by david finkelhor (sorry,
 the title escapes me).
 
 conclusions that can be drawn from this:  none.
 
 > if homosexuals would stop using the government to impose their
 > morality on others (antidiscrimination laws) and leave our children
 > alone, i wouldn't care in the least what they did in private.  but
 > until they get over the liberal notion that the proper role of 
 > government is to tell peaceful people how to live, i have no choice
 > but to continue to point out that homosexuality is not an "alternative
 > lifestyle," but a sickness.
 
 oh, you definitely have a choice.  you realize, of course, that you
 are approaching the two-year anniversary of your crusade.  how are
 you planning on celebrating two years of lies?
 
 incidentally, we are still waiting your crusade against african-americans,
 women, and other minorities who also want to "impose their morality on
 others".  after all, they also want the government to "tell peaceful
 people how to live."  therefore, you really "have no choice", but to
 continue to point out that being a woman or an african-american is not
 a lifestyle, but a sickness.
 
 it's bullshit, mr. cramer.  it was bullshit when you began this crusade
 and it's still bullshit.  i am continually amazed at the depths to which
 you'll stoop to carry on this deliberate attack.
 
 paul bartholomew
 pdb059@ipl.jpl.nasa.gov
 