
 sys1@exnet.co.uk (xavier gallagher) writes:
 : 
 : no.  i make a distinction between working for yourself to survive and
 : paying dues to mother nature in the form of labour and working for
 : joe propertyowner because you do not have the option of working for
 : yourself.  joe propertyowner stands between you and the earth you
 : work and expects you to pay him *and* mother nature for the right
 : to survive.  the property laws create a layer of parasites that get
 : fat on the fact that people have *no option* except to work in
 : factories.  
 : 
 i want people to be able to get the things they need in life.  property
 ownership may not be ideal, but it is far better at letting people get
 what they need to live a productive, fulfulling life.
 
 the first experiment in america, where property ownership was denied,
 caused, starvation, hunger, and death.  few people know that the
 pilgrims originally tried to have common property to grow food and a
 common food store.  many people know the hardships they suffered the
 first few winters because of it.  after arriving, the pilgrims made all
 property common.  they all shared in the work and the resulting crops
 went into a common store.  after much debate the new governor bradford
 privitized the land; assigning plots to each family.  according to perry
 d. westbrook:  "the change was immediately justified by the increased
 industry of the inhabitants and by the larger acreage planted."
 
 bradford himself acknowledged this failure of communism.  he wrote:  "the
 experience that was had in this common course and condition, tried
 sundry years and that amongst godly and sober men, may well evince the
 vanity of that conceit of plato's and other ancients applauded by some of
 later times; that the taking away of property and bringing in community into
 a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing; as if they were wiser
 than god.  for this community (so far as it was) was found to breed much
 confusion and discontent and retard much employment that would have been
 to their benefit and comfort."
 
 bradford did not blame this failure on the "strangers", but on the basic
 selfishness in all men.  he wrote "seeing all men have this corruption in
 them, god in his wisdom saw another course fitter for them."  in other
 words, according to westbrook, "bradford found private enterprise to be
 the most suitable economic policy for mankind in its fallen state."
 
 let's not make the same mistake that the pilgrims made.  private
 property allows a society to flourish, the alternative brings
 starvation, poverty and discontent.
 -- 
 paul schmidt: advocates for self-government, davy crockett chapter president
 706 judith drive, johnson city, tn 37604, (615)283-0084, uunet!tijc02!pjs269
 "freedom seems to have unleashed the  creative energies of the people -- and
 leads to ever higher levels of income and social progress."  --  u.n. report
 