
 in article <fern.735342004@camelot> fern@camelot.bradley.edu (jill rosencrans) writes:
 >
 >i'm not saying i'm satisfied with the outcome, it's very upsetting.
 >you are simply blaming the wrong person.  
 >
 
 oh are we jill?  let me tell you a story then...
 
 one evening not long in this country a man, a parolee, a convicted known 
 violent crimminal lead police on high speed chase after breaking another law.
 he decided that police had no right to do their jobs and enforce the law
 and assualted two of while attempting to resist arrest.  when police use
 metal sticks to force him into submission we heard all the reason why certain
 people in this country have and excuse when they refuse to obey the law, 
 how this was a perfect example of police oppression, how all the police
 had to do was behave a certain way and all would have been finei, how nothing
 the victim did could have possibly warranted the response - some blows with
 a few sticks - he got from the authorities.
 
 funny, how when it's bloodbath billy or his hitwench calling the shots,
 a group of people who were bothering no one, were not know to have broken 
 any law, who asked only that they be left alone to practice their religion
 as they fit, how it is now that the government is justified in assualting
 those people with 100 heavily armed commandos simply because the gun 
 grabbers in dc thought these people had more guns thay they thought they
 should have.  now when it's the clinton administration that has the blood
 of dozens on its hand aaaall of a sudden it's the people who refused to
 have their civil rights violated, it's their fault, those evil fanatics
 provoked it...
 
 how is it in the mind of the liberal democrat-clinton supporter that a
 crimminal puke, scum bag, piece of garbage like rodney king could not have
 possibly provoked the beating he got, but this bunch of wierdos could cause 
 a fifty one day stand off that ended with the burning deaths of all of them
 and their children, all by themselves with no help from the the police.  
 and to here people say they deserved what they got, to hear clinton say
 the blame rest solely with koresch, what a cowardly piece of work that
 man has shown, again, himself to be.
 
 we're blaming the right people.  it is you and others that defend any of the
 actions of the batf, fbi or justice department in this matter, that with 
 each word prove again and again the depth of the hypocrisy, the double
 standard that people like the clintons would hold certain americans to. 
 while at the same time allowing others to do as they please with only 
 excuses to offer their victims.  it's all to clear these days, from the
 comments of the "president" and the rationalizations of his supporters
 in these groups, that in a liberal democratic vision of america only
 a certain select few people can expect to have civil rights enforced, 
 and this administration intends to enforce laws, apply the constitution
 and obey the laws only when it suits them to do so. 
 
 the rooster
 
 				warning!
 
                    by order of heir clinton and for your own
                 personal safety: remember to maintain membership
                  in only batf approved religious organizations.
 	 	   batf approved religious services.
 
 
 .
 