
 from article <1qvampinnmhf@darkstar.ucsc.edu>, by stephen@orchid.ucsc.edu:
 
 > mr cramer-
 
 > you are on one hand condemning the news media as;
 
 > "the role of the national news media in inflaming passions" that
 > was your message subject i believe.
 
 > then you turn around and actually take; from the santa rosa (cal.) press-democrat,
 > april 15, 1993, p. b2: 
 
 > male sex survey: gay activity low title.
 
 > you even use such a title for the san jose mercury news- the murky news.
 
 > now which is it?  are you going to comdemn national media, then turn around
 > and use it to support some position you present?  seems somewhat contradictory
 > doesn't it.
 
 i believe that this is not contradictory on the basis that
 the quality of media reporting varies greatly based on the
 subject at hand.  the media has proven itself very accurate
 is the areas of presenting raw, undisputed data.  one good
 example would be the weather page in which high and low
 temperatures of the previous day for a large number of
 locations are posting.  there is little evidence to show
 that they are in error.
 
 the american media has failed us in its analysis of complex
 events, however.  i'm sure that we can come up with many
 news stories that have left us angry because so many facts
 have been ommitted.  cases that come to mind are the
 invasion of panama, the war with iraq, the disaster in waco,
 the issues surrounding the acceptance of gays into the
 military, the war on drugs, and many others.
 
 the story that you bring to light was regarding the new
 sex survey.  while i'm sure that due to lazyness some of
 the data was ommitted from the article, i would venture to
 guess that the data that was presented did not deviate
 from the survey.  i do, however, think that it would be
 folly to have blind faith in a single newswriter's
 analysis of this data.  in this particular case, there was
 little analysis, and the reader was left to draw his/her
 own convictions.
 
 many netters, mr. cramer included, often forget that the
 american media are merely a number of businesses, who's
 purpose in life is to make money for their owners and
 stockholders.  revenues come largely from advertisers
 who merely want maximum useful exposure per dollar.  the
 media is like fast food; the quality of the food (or of
 the reporting) will improve only if the customers demand
 as such.  otherwise, it is business as usual.
 -- 
 mark walsh (walsh@optilink) -- uucp: uunet!optilink!walsh
 amateur radio: km6xu@wx3k -- aol: bigcookie@aol.com -- uscf: l10861
 "what, me worry?" - william m. gaines, 1922-1992
 "i'm gonna crush you!" - andre the giant, 1946-1993
 