
 in article <mrsc5se7f.1e6@netcom.com>, mrs@netcom.com (morgan schweers) writes:
 
 >     look, let's try to beat gun control with reason and sense, not by
 > trying to appeal to emotions, and threatening conspiracies.  denounce
 > gca '68 as wrong because it's wrong, not because it's based off of a
 > law from someone else's government.
 
 there's something to be said for beating gun control with reason and 
 sense: it's intellectually and morally honest.
 
 there's also something to be said for using appeal to emotions --
 that's the only way the gun control organizations have managed to 
 make more progress on the issue in the past 30 years than gun 
 rights activists ever have.
 
 >     we, the people, must state that we find the law unappealing and
 > contrary to our freedom.  we must use logic, and reason, and compelling
 > arguments.  to use emotion, and appeal to fear is to lower yourselves
 > to the level of your enemies.
 
 yes, and it's a damned shame.
 
 "members of advocacy groups on both sides of the great american gun
  debate share some rhetorical difficulties in common.  each side is
  committed to overstating the problem it addresses.  for the procontrol
  forces, that problem is the contribution of guns to violence and
  crime, while for the anticontrol forces, that problem is the
  procontrol forces...  each set of advocacy group serves as the demon
  by which the other side can rally the troops, raising morale and
  money.  the public is not enlightened by this war of words because
  neither set of advocates has any stake in merely presenting the plain,
  unvarnished truth, even to the extent that flawed and biased human
  minds can understand it.  quite the contrary -- to tell the truth and
  nothing but the truth would place one side at a distinct disadvantage
  if the other side did not also lay down their propaganda weapons."
  (kleck, point blank: guns and violence in america.)
 
 >     a side issue...  when talking about the amendments, it bothers
 > me to see people acting as if they empower them, but require no
 > responsibility from them.  free speech also assumes restraint, well
 > armed militia expects well trained militia..
 
 (it's "well regulated" militia, but i'll let that pass...)
 
 constitutionally, it is the responsibility of the states to train the
 militia.  unfortunately, the states relinquished their own, independent 
 militia units to the national guard -- which can be "federalized" into 
 army service by the president at any time -- in their hunger for federal
 funds.  and it was the states -- not the gun owners -- who passed laws 
 against "private citizens engaging in martial drill."
 
 so, many gun owners train to the remaining lawful limit, which training
 is almost exclusively administered by the nra -- not the states, not
 the feds.  so don't lecture us on responsibility.
 -- 
 
 cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com   --if you believe that i speak for my company,
 or cdt@vos.stratus.com        write today for my special investors' packet...
 
 