 <1993apr18.190534.28044@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu> <mvpc5rb2h.d2f@netcom.com>
 distribution: usa
 organization: penn state university
 lines: 38
 
 in article <mvpc5rb2h.d2f@netcom.com>, mvp@netcom.com (mike van pelt) says:
 >there is something terribly wrong, however, with a culture which
 >condemns, attacks, and all too often kills any of its members who
 >attempt to get an education.  my mother is an elementary school
 >teacher, and she tells me that she and her african american collegues
 >are frustrated to tears by the fact that any african american child who
 >attempts to do well in school and get an education is accused by
 >his/her peers of "trying to be white", and is beaten, bullied, and
 >tormented by them.  it goes beyond each passing grade on a test earning
 >a beating.  in my mother's school, one of the most promising young
 >students, who happened to be african american, had her throat cut by
 >one of these young thugs.
 
 you know, you have a point here, but don't stop with african americans...
 when i was in high school in the early 1980s, on various occasions i had
 knives pulled on me, had friends who were stabbed, and i was beaten up
 repeatedly by those that couldn't accept me as different.  and don't
 let the teachers off the hook either.  on many many occasions, there
 were teachers that either resented me or were too scared out of their
 wits by the bullies to even stop the people who attacked me and they
 would just watch quietly...  all of this was in a nice white middle
 class high school.  in fact, we were so nice and white that we made
 sure that the one black kid in my class was unable to go to the prom
 with his white girlfriend...  this isn't a race thing, it's the
 way public schools seem to be run...
 
 i'd hate to be in high school right now...  at least i didn't have
 to deal with guns, just the roving psycho-drug-dorks and the jocks-
 without-a-future-but-with-plenty-of-testosterone...
 
 i'd separate everyone who wants to learn from these assholes...  but hey,
 the valuelessness of learning and glorification of jocks is an american
 tradition, you think anything is going to change?  if you have kids,
 take 'em out of the public school system and educate them yourself...
 that's what i'll do if i ever have them...  i wouldn't wish what i went
 through upon any kid...  maybe on some of their parents though...
 
 scott
 