
 (note: cross-posted to alt.politics.italy and talk.politics.misc
  this is a reply to an article by ed ipser which also appeared in
  alt.politics.usa.misc and alt.politics.libertarian, but no longer belongs)
 
 
 i hate to defend ed (the article was very poorly written) but here goes:
 
 hallam@dscomsa.desy.de (phill hallam-baker) writes:
 >ed should take a look at the budget deficit regan and bush created together
 >before he starts to make claims about europe collapsing based on the budget
 >deficits here. none of them are serious on the usa scale.
 
 italy's per-capita debt is much higher than usa's.
 
 
 >we do not want our countries to be run by a narrow elite of rich lawyers
 >for the benefit of the super wealthy.
 
 this is *exactly* what the public in france & italy perceive to be the
 problem-- thus the french election and italian pulizia.
 
 
 regarding the post-pulizia italy:
 >what looks likely to happen is the fringe parties are going to do much
 >better in the next election. most of the parliamentary deputies are going
 >to get replaced and the parties are going to be forced to look to people
 >who are free of any hint of corruption. look out for a parliament of
 >pavarotti's and porn stars.
 
 wrong.  this is true perhaps only for the lega nord.
 the referendum sunday is expected to establish a british/american style
 first-past-the-post system in the senate.  if implemented, it would
 encourage a two- (or perhaps three-) party system in italy.
 most likely the dc and psi will not be these parties; rather there will
 be a shakeup of the entire party structure from which 2 new parties
 will emerge to dominate.  will lega nord be one of these?  who knows.
 
 (the camera dei deputati (lower house) will likely remain with
 proportional representation for a while, but there is talk of switching a
 portion of that house, too. maybe as much as 40% first-past-the-post)
 
 overall, the electoral reform in italy is a welcome change.  italians
 are tired of having crappy government.  porn stars, pavarotti's and
 hunters & fishers won't gain seats because pr is dead.  a good two-party
 system will bring italy efficient, accountable government.
 
 it's about time.
 
 jeff hagen
 hagenjd@ac.wfu.edu
 
 