
 in article <15446@optilink.com>
      cramer@optilink.com (clayton cramer) writes:
 
 >in article <1993apr17.093826.5227@nwnexus.wa.com>
 >     elf@halcyon.com (elf sternberg) writes:
 
 >>    geez, where have you been, ryan?  i proposed this theory *months*
 >> ago.  let's take it one step further, even.  if, as the surveys show,
 >> up to 33% of all men have *had* a homosexual encounter, then there must
 
 >cite a survey, other than the obviously bogus kinsey studies.
 
    granted.  pomeroy, bell, weinberg, 1967.  "national institute of
 mental health paper 12353, ''patterns of adjusment in deviant
 populations.''"  cited as part of the national institute of mental
 health task force on homosexuality.
 
    pomery concluded, "the kinsey statistic of 37% is probably higher
 than is realistic.  according to these estimates, 33% is a more
 realistic figure."
 
    (i went out and bought lots of bell & weinberg this weekend... can
 you tell?)
 
    also, the janus report on sexual behavior (samuel s. janus, ph.d.
 and cynthia l. janus, m.d., john wiley & sons (pub), 1992) has the
 following:
 
 table 3.14
 have you ever had a homosexual experience?
           men.    women.
 n=        1,335   1,384
 yes       22%      17%
 no        78%      83%
 
 table 3.15
 how often have you had homosexual contact?
                       men   women
 n=                    294     235
 a. once                5%      6%
 b. occasionally       56%     67%
 c. frequently         13%      6%
 d. ongoing            26%     21%
 
 active (c. + d.)      39%     37%
 
 39% of 22% is 9%.  this number is consistent with kinsey, pomery,
 gebard (1953), bell & weinberg (1967, 1974), and rice (1987) in the
 finding that 9% of the male population is actively homosexual, with
 an further breakdown (bell & wienberg, 1978) of 4% exclusively so and
 5% self-identifying themselves as "bisexuals."
 
    (pp 69, 70)
 
    as for debunking kinsey, the following article is an important
 lesson for everyone to read:
 
 was kinsey a fake and a pervert?
 by philip nobile
 
      far out on the grassy knoll of sexology, there is a cult of
 prochastity researchers who claim that the late alfred kinsey was a
 secret sex criminal, a hoosier dr. mengele, who bent his numbers
 toward the bisexual and the bizarre in a grand conspiracy to queer the
 nation and usher in an era of free sex with kids.  
 
      but what really riles these critics is kinsey's towerin~ cultural
 influence.  his bestselling surveys-- sexual behavior in the human male
 (1948) and sexual behavior in the human female (1953)-- tore the
 sheets off the country's erogenous zones and undermined midcentury
 morals.  his charts and graphs, based on detailed histories of 12,000
 men and women, demonstrated that practices generally considered rare
 and/or 'abnormal'-- masturbation, extramarital relations,
 homosexuality, and even barnyard bestiality, were as american as
 strawberry shortcake.  
 
      yet for a hard core of these heterosexual supremacists, aided and
 abetted by pat buchanan and the religious right, the zoology professor
 from indiana university remains the evil genius behind the sex
 revolution and a target for character assassination.  
 
      judith reisman, the prosecution's expert witness at the
 mapplethorpe trial in cincinnati, is the leader of the anti- kinsey
 revisionists as well as his inspector javert.  in 1983, during a radio
 interview with pat buchanan in washington, reisman accused kinsey of
 having been inolved in "the vicious genital torture of hundreds of
 children."  she speculated that he kidnapped and drugged ghetto boys in
 order to carry out clandestine orgasm tests.  
 
      now, seven years later, reisman has revived her charges in a
 different book, titled kinsey, sex and fraud, just released by the
 small and religiously oriented huntington house in lafayette,
 louisiana.  her coauthor is ed eichel, a manhattan psychotherapist who
 has invented a new style of intromission ("the coital alignment
 technique") that supposedly triggers simultaneous orgasm with
 considerable regularity and thereby increases compatibilty between the
 sexes.  in the book eichel contends that "kinsey deliberately cooked
 the gay stats because, being an oddball himself, he wanted to advance
 the 'denormalization' of heterosexuality."  
 
      if the authors are right, then the world- famous kinsey reports
 are, as the introduction boldly asserts, "the most egregious example
 of scientific deception in this century."  and if they are wrong,
 kinsey, sex and fraud is a shameful smear.
 
      despite the less- than- stellar credentials of kinsey's
 detractors, legends are not what they used to be.  martin luther king
 may have committed plagiarism.  bruno bettelheim slapped young mental
 patients around.  father bruce ritter, the founder of covenant house,
 preyed on runaway boys.  closer to kinsey, masters and johnson have
 been disgraced for faking it in one way or another.  
 
      so it should not surprise anybody that kinsey, who filmed strange
 people having sex in his attic, may have had skeletons in the closet.
 the problem is that reisman does not seem to have the intellectual
 prowess to pull off the job.  
 
      as a thinker, the woman is no madame curie.  the 55-year-old
 former songwriter for captain kangaroo has little professional
 standing, no current university position, and no peer-review
 publications, though her creative 1983 resume was padded with phantom
 accomplishments.  for instance, it listed a book as her own-- take back
 the night: women on pornography-- that was actually written and edited
 by others.  then there is her ph.d. in speech communication from
 cleveland's case western reserve university.  although reisman has no
 bachelor's degree, case granted her a master's in 1976 and a doctorate
 in 1979.  her dissertation was on the commentaries of a local
 octagenarian tv commentator.  but on the resume, reisman gave this
 piece of scholarship a fancy hautes etudes moniker-- to wit: "the
 application of aristotelian and systems analytic theory to mass media
 effects."
 
      when reisman burst into prominence on buchanan's program, it was
 love at first sight for al regnery, the outwardly anti- 
 porn head of juvenile justice and delinquency prevention in ed meese's
 justice department.  regnery was a young law-and-order conservative and
 amateur social philosopher who wanted to help change the sexual
 climate of the united states.  
 
      after reisman's sensational radio session, the sexual equivalent
 of joe mccarthy's wheeling speech, regnery summoned 
 her to meetings to discuss mutual interests.  first he tried to shovel
 her $800,000 for a quasi-frankenstein study that was going to measure
 the brain chemicals of men and boys who looked at arousing
 photographs.  guffaws on capitol hill killed the original proposal, but
 $734,000 in govemment money went to reisman anyway for plan b- a probe
 of child images in the cartoons playboy, penthouse, and hust
 ler.  (incredibly, this grant surpassed the entire budget of the
 attorney general's pornography commission.) 
 
      when the overpriced and oversold project was completed in 1986,
 it was immediately shelved by an embarrassed justice department.  that
 spring, regnery resigned from his post only days before the new
 republic carried this admission that he had kept porno magazines
 around the house.  
 
      notwithstanding the six-figure humiliation, reisman went on to
 scratch out a niche on the ioony right.  as the darling of the sex
 cranks, she deplores subversive phenomena like shaved genitalia in
 men's magazines and blames aids on gays.  kinsey, sex and fraud is
 reisman's latest grasp for respectability.  pat buchanan, of course, is
 putting his krugerrands on reisman's ultimate vindication.  "this book
 is social dynamite," he says in a blurb an the front cover.  he
 especially liked the antigay parts.  smacking his lips in his
 syndicated column, he declared, "it may just blow the sewer cap off
 kinsey's monumental reputation, reestablish homosexuality as a 1-in-50
 aberration, expose the gay rights movement as a paper tiger, and even
 put at risk the enormous sex industry built upon dr. kinsey's
 'research.'"
 
      the blockbuster charge at the heart of the cluttered and
 repetilive j'accuse is that kinsey was a sex-mad pedophile who
 molested little boys in nazi-type experiments and recorded their
 orgasms in his male volume/ a similar charge was first recited at the
 fifth world conference on sexology in jerusalem in 1981 to no effect
 before being recycled by reisman for buchanan in washington in 1983.
 
      here is how reisman and eichel repackaged the mengele business in
 kinsey, sex and fraud:
 
      mengele-like 'scientific' experiments on infants and children
 were the basis for kinsey's conclusions...  on childhood sexuality.
 
      somewhere and sometime in the course of the project, kinsey
 appears to have directed experimental sex research on several hundred
 children aged from two months to almost 15 years.
 
      this, of course, would implicate kinsey and his team in
 promoting, and perhaps participating in, the criminal activity.
 
      in the opinion of this book's authors, that is exactly how part
 of kinsey's child sexuality research took place.
 
 
      donning his psychohistorian's cap and citing an fbi manual on
 child molesters as a guide, eichel casually diagnoses kinsey as a
 homosexual pedophile with the perfect motive for doing exactly as
 reisman said: 
  
 
      [kinsey] placed himself in professional and nonprofessional
 positions where he had access to young boys, such as y.m.c.a.  camp
 counselor, boys' club leader, and boy scout leader-- activities he
 kept up 'during his college and graduate yeaers, and even after his
 marriage."
  
 
      as crude as his analysis seems, eichel was more than happy to
 elaborate even further in a recent phone interview.  "if you've ever
 been around boy- lovers, pedophiles, they are absolutely compulsive,"
 he averred.  "everything in his life is directed at getting children.  i
 didn't mention this in our book but the caption under kinsey's high
 school picture was a quote from hamlet: 'man delights me not, no,
 [sic] nor woman neither.' what do you think they were picking up on?" 
 
      before weighing what reisman and eichel pass off as proof of
 kinsey's sex crimes, something must be said about kinsey's scientific
 modus operandi.  he was a fiendish collector.  as a young zoologist with
 a d.sc.  from harvard, he collected 4 million gall wasps and 1.5
 million related insects.  when he switched to sex exploration after
 agreeing to teach a marriage course at indiana university in 1938, he
 was no less curious or acquisitive.  nothing that mammals did in the
 realm of reproduction was foreign to him.  he compiled masses of erotic
 materials including toilet wall inscriptions from male and female
 johns that highlighted differences in sexual psychology and flms of
 mating in 14 species of animals that showed an amazing similarity in
 oral eroticism.  
 
      naturally, the sexual response of children, the genesis of eros,
 fascinated him.  it was impossible to understand the sexual behaviors
 of adults without examining their origins.  and so with the fervor of
 his bughunting days, kinsey collected information about kids, though
 even his worst enemies-- until reisman and eichel-- refrained from
 linking him personally to his data on preadolescent sex.  
 
      kinsey said plainly in the male volume that he got information on
 the sex life of young boys from people who had sex with them: "some of
 these adults are technically trained persons who have kept diaries or
 other records which have been put at our disposal."  although he
 gathered much boyhood data from the memories of his subjects and the
 observations of parents and nursery school teachers, he treated the
 documentary materia! of the pedophiles as pure gold.  there was nothing
 like it in the literature.  
 
      kinsey's main source, a 63-year-old govemment worker, was also
 the most unforgettable character he had ever met.  this man, whose
 history took 17 hours to log, had sex with over 600 boys and 200 girls
 as well as 17 of 33 family members including his father and
 grandmother.  a sexual hobbyist and passionate record-keeper, he gave
 kinsey detailed accounts of orgasms that he observed in preadolescent
 boys.  relying on the man's meticulous research, which involved
 following some boys for as long as 16 years, kinsey was able to
 identify for the first time six distinct types of male orgasm-- some
 of which involved violent contortions at the peak of release-- as well
 as the speed and the capacity of climax.  
 
      what freud had only imagined about childhood sexuality, kinsey
 had reported as fact.  children were indeed erotic beings from the
 cradle.  "these data on the sexual activities of younger male provide
 an important substantiation of the freudian view of sexuality as a
 component that is present in the human animal from earliest infancy,"
 he concluded without raising eyebrows in 1948.  
 
      then along came judith reisman.  ignorng the legitimacy of
 kinsey's inquiry, she beheld the ghost of mengele in bloomington.  she
 was appalled by the thought of infant ecstasy and read torture in the
 portrayals of prepubertal orgasm rendered by the government worker.
 and she dared to say that kinsey was a sex criminal.  
 
      well, was he or wasn't he? let's go to the text.  there is no
 evidence in kinsey, sex and fraud-- no witnesses, no paper, noteven a
 trace of hearsay-- that implicates kinsey in either planning or
 partaking in child sex experiments.  after 12 years on the trail,
 reisman has uncovered just two sources to back up her original charge-
 - amazingly enough, kinsey himself and wardell pomeroy, kinsey's
 coauthor on both reports, to whom reisman has never spoken.  it turns
 out that her whole case rests on a few passages in the male volume
 iand in pomeroy's 1972 biography titled dr. kinsey and the institute
 for sex research.
 
      after frisking every "the" and "and" in both books, reisman came
 up with what she believes are "smoking" sentences.  to establish
 kinsey's alleged role in the planning, she says that "there is a hint"
 in the fifth chapter of the male volume that kinsey "directed" the
 orgasm studies on kids.  she cites his tell-tale quote from a critic of
 armchair psychoanalysis demanding that "writers...test their
 theories...by empirical study and statistical procedures."  then she
 combines this quote with kinsey's statement that some of the
 observations of his pedophile sources "were continued over periods of
 months or years until the individuals were old enough to make it
 certain that true orgasm was involved."  
 
      putting two and two together-- kinsey's empiricism and lengthy
 experimentation-- she arrives at her hint.  but realizing this dog
 would not hunt, she devoted but a single paragraph to kinsey's
 supposed planning before shifting to the issue of his personal
 involvement.  as for the alleged participation, after poring over
 pomeroy's biography, reisman found several hidden clues suggesting
 kinsey's likely hands-on approach to kiddie sex.  here the chain of
 reasoning is more complex.  she points out that kinsey was interested
 in clitoral measurements, collecting sperm and filming sex in his
 attic.  since kinsey did indeed mislead indiana university about the
 purpose of his cinematography-- he said that he was filming "animal
 sex"-- reisman asserts that a "similar misrepresentation may yet apply
 to kinsey's child sex experiments."  catch the "may"!
 
      reisman was also struck by kinsey's doubting thomas attitude
 toward the never before recorded climax of female rabbits: "kinsey,
 according to pomeroy, was the type of person who needed to see things
 for himself.  pomeroy gave the example of orgasm in the female rabbit.
 because he had not personally witnessed this event, kinsey had
 difficulty in accepting its reality, even on the strength of testimony
 from a distinguished scientist.  how then did kinsey testify to the
 actuality of orgasm in a 5-month-old infant from the mere 'history' of
 a sex offender?" (but, of course, he did not: he depended on their
 records.) 
 
      from this fantastic alchemy of conjecture mixed with clitorides,
 sperm, attic cumshots, and climax-in-cottontail has reisman defamed
 the legendary kinsey.
 
      paul gebhard succeeded kinsey as the director of the kinsey
 institute and now lives in retirement outside bloomington.  reached by
 telephone, gebhard defended the pedophile connection and denied
 reisman's nasty imputations.  "i don't understand the resistance of
 people like reisman to studying the sexuality of children," gebhard
 said more in exasperation than anger.  "that is where sex begins.  we
 were happy to take data wherever we found it.  even though pedophiles
 commit criminal acts, they are usually not violent folks.  they
 wouldn't be very successful if they were.  one of our best sources was
 a headmaster of a boys' school who maintained a kind of alumni club
 and sometimes went to the weddings of his former students.  as for
 directing experiments, that's absurd.  we never told any of our
 subjects what to do.  lt was against our principles.  almost all of the
 pedophile material was retrospective anyway.  nor did we ever conduct
 sex experiments with children ourselves.  that would have been highly
 inappropriate."  
 
      i asked gebhard if kinsey had ever seen a child in a sexual
 situation.  "i think a mother once brought in a little girl who humped
 her teddy bear and kinsey watched it."  
 
      as for kinsey's sex life, it is still shrouded in
 confidentiality.  he was married to the same woman for 35 years and
 fathered four children.  apparently, there are no huge sexual
 revelations, although rumors of homosexuality have persisted without
 confirmation through the years.  gebhard took his boss's history back
 in the '40s, but he refuses to discuss what he knows.  "we never
 divulge anything about anybody's history, whether dead or alive," he
 says.  
 
      reisman said no to an interview for this article on the grounds
 that i had once worked for penthouse-- not to mention the fact that we
 have been debating each other in various forums for the past five
 years.  in keeping with our contentious history, she took a swipe at me
 in her book for continuing "the kinsey practice of euphemizing
 incest."  my offense was using the biblical variant "lying with a near
 relative" in a 1977 article on the subject of incest.  as a synonym for
 intercourse, "lying with" appears eight times in genesis.  
 
      ed eichel is a different story.  though seemingly obsessed by
 kinsey like his coauthor, he was friendly in long conversations.  he
 told me that he began to smell a big baised agenda in sexology when he
 was a student in new york university's human sexuality program in the
 early '80s.  "it was literally a gay studies program for heterosexuals,"
 he says.
 
      around 1985, eichel came upon reisman's critique of kinsey and
 the conspiracy theory started to sink in: the sex establishment was
 ruled by a kinseyan bisexual bund advocating the overthrow of the
 heterosexual norm.  no wonder he was having such a rough time promoting
 the joy of simultaneous orgasm-- anything that enhanced sexual
 compatibility between men and women inevitably raised objections.
 
      eventually, eichel exchanged philosophical fluids with reisman,
 and from this union kinsey, sex and fraud was born.  eichel's main
 contribution to the book is discovery and analysis of a kinsey
 conspiracy that supposedly seeks "the establishment of bisexuality as
 the balanced sexual orientation for normal, uninhibited people" which,
 by destroying the traditional family structure and normal sexual
 behavior, "would open the way for the second and more difficult step--
 the ultimate goal of cross-generational sex (sex with children)."  
 
      when i pressed him for specific references to back up his
 outrageous contentions, he said weakly, "you don't think kinsey is
 going to come right out and say that everybody is basically bisexual
 and should have sex with kids, but this is implicit in the kinsey
 reports."  
 
      meanwhile, eichel is demanding a congressional investigation of
 kinsey and his data.  perfect.  that's just what the country needs-- a
 house un-american sexual activities committee, looking under beds and
 asking people if they are now or have everbeen a reader, a sympathizer
 or-- god forbid-- a subject of dr. alfred kinsey.
 
 
          elf !!!
 --
 elf@halcyon.com  (elf sternberg)
 
    "the purpose of writing is to inflate weak ideas, obscure pure
 reasoning, and inhibit clarity.  with a little pratice, writing can be
 an intimidating and impenetrable fog!"  - bill watterson's calvin.
 