
 
 since 1979, the members of the european parliament (the parliamentary assemby
 of the european community) have been elected directly by the citizens of the
 member states. before, the members of the european parliament (meps) were just
 members of national parliaments (mnps) elected by and from among their peers.
 
 in the european parliament, every member state has a fixed number of seats,
 which increases less than proportionally with the population. once in five
 years, a general european election is being held, in which the citizens of all
 member states choose their representatives to the european parliament. next
 elections are due in 1994.
 
 now the voting system for these european elections still differs from one
 country to another. although the european treaty enabling the direct election
 of the meps requires a uniform voting system, up to now every country has just
 used its own system, more or less the same one used for national elections.
 british meps are elected in a first-past-the-post system with one mep per
 district; nearly all other states have chosen a system with proportional
 representation. but then in some countries (france, italy) meps are allowed to
 be a mnp as well, whilst in others they are not (belgium, netherlands).
 
 the european parliament is now working on a uniform election system for its
 own members, so that every candidate should have the same regulations to
 comply with, regardless of the member state (s)he wants to be elected for. i
 would like to know what you people out there think of the following questions:
 
 1. do you think it is necessary to have uniform regulations or should every
 member state continue to use its own regulations (for european elections that
 is)?
 
 2. do you think a system of majority voting should be implemented, with one or
 more meps per district, or would you prefer a system with proportional
 representation (for the whole of the community or per state, per region, per
 district?).
 
 3. do you think the european commission (or just its president) should be
 directly elected too, or should it be appointed by the european parliament, or
 by the joint member state governments as it is now?
 
 4. the maastricht treaty allows subjects of member states to stand for
 election in another member state they are residing in. do you think you would
 or could vote for a foreigner if his/her ideas appeal to you?
 
 5. do you think meps should be allowed to be a member of a national parliament
 or a regional parliament too? or a member of a national or regional government
 body?
 
 6. the european parliament now has meetings in both strasbourg and brussels.
 meps themselves are for a complete move to brussels in great majority, but
 political compromises between the governments of the member states stick to
 the status quo. do you approve of this or do you think the european parliament
 should meet in one city only, and if yes, which?
 
 please post your answers to eunet.politics, to which all followups are
 automatically directed. if you do not have access to that group, please mail
 your answer directly to me and i will post it for you.
 
 i hope many of you will take the time to post their views on this matter.
 --
 roland siebelink - lokaal b.034          centrum voor de studie van nieuwe
 vrije universiteit brussel scom/nmit     media, informatie en telecommunicatie
 pleinlaan 2 - 1050 brussel - belgium     tel. direkt:  +32.2.641 24 15
 e-mail <rcsiebel@vnet3.vub.ac.be>        tel. centrum: +32.2.641 24 12
 talk <rcsiebel@is2.vub.ac.be>            fax centrum:  +32.2.641 28 61
 