
 in article <1993apr20.202749.9007@galileo.cc.rochester.edu> as010b@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (tree of schnopia) writes:
 >
 >wow, i hadn't realized how venomous this was getting!  be careful here...the
 >problem isn't the rich but the values and the systems that make the rich
 >rich.
 
   but the "values and systems that make the rich rich" all basically
   amount to freedom of choice. 
 
   in new england in 1800 the entire economy was based on the small family
   farm.   farm economy households were economically diversified, producing
   not only agricultural goods but also "manufactured" goods, especially 
   cloth.  many farm women carded, spun, and/or wove, producing not only
   cloth for their own family but also to sell, generating extra income.
 
   but about this time the industrial revolution was underway in england
   and by the 1820's it had moved to the us, in both cases in the form 
   of textile mills.  these mills could produce cloth far more efficiently
   and cheaply than people at home.  
 
   the result was that an important source of home income was wiped out
   and many of these women were compelled by economic circumstance to 
   go to work in these same mills in lowell, mass, or nashua, nh, where
   they worked 73 hour weeks in deafening, dangerous conditions, living 
   regimented lives and being exposed to cotton-dust and infectious dis-
   eases due to the work.
 
   now people didn't *have* to buy the cheaper factory-made cloth. 
   they were free to keep buying the home-made variety and support
   their local economy . . . 
 
 > things are designed in such a way that in order to go with the system
 >and make money, everything else we care about goes to shit.
 
   . . . but (sorry for the cliche), "it takes two to tango".   the big
   rich corporations achieved that wealth because we buy their stuff.
   it used to be the case that the business center of a town was also 
   its social center.  you knew the merchants you did business with 
   or even local kids working behind the counter.   you would see
   people on the street whom you knew and you could stop for a chat.
 
   nowadays local merchants are going out of business and people shop 
   at huge anonymous malls serving regional populations of hundreds of
   thousands or millions.  you have no particular relationship with the
   companies you do business with, and feel no particular commitment
   to them, nor they to you.   major components of what defines a "com-
   munity" have been destroyed.   on the other hand the products we buy
   at these malls are a lot cheaper due to economies of scale and foreign
   manufacture, and they are probably of better, or at least more consistent,
   quality.
 
 
 >                                                           i have to
 >constantly remind myself that the goal of human society is not to make
 >money.  money doesn't make us happy; it just prevents certain things making
 >us more unhappy.
 >
 >therefore, don't shoot the rich.  shoot the conservatives!
 
   don't blame the conservatives for this.  everyone makes their own
   individual choice and the liberals and the fence-sitters are just
   as guilty of pretending there are no social and cultural consequences
   to economic choices.
 
 
 ---peter
 
 