
 
 
 
 	     
 
 
                            the white house
 
                     office of the press secretary
 _____________________________________________________________________
 for immediate release                                  april 20, 1993
 
 
                             press briefing
                        by george stephanopoulos
 
 	     
                           the briefing room
 
 
 12:36 p.m. edt
 	     
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as you know, the president is going 
 to come out at 1:15 p.m.  with your indulgence, i think what we'd 
 like to do is have the president award the national teacher's award 
 first and then have the teacher leave, or whatever, and then he'll 
 make a statement on waco and take a couple questions.  so if we can 
 just hold off going live and all that until that's done, it probably 
 will work out a lot better. 
 	     
 	     q	  if you'll give us the time.  that's the problem.
 	     
 	     q	  we've got a two-minute warning problem.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, it is a problem.  it's about 
 1:15 p.m.
 	     
 	     q	  the teacher would walk off and then --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's -- i'm just trying 
 to work this out here.  i think that's the best way to handle it.
 	     
 	     q	  can i ask you a series of questions about the way 
 the president handled the notifications yesterday? 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sure.
 	     
 	     q	  did you, for instance, talk to the justice 
 department about who would come out and discuss what had happened in 
 waco and whether it should be the attorney general or the president?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  why don't we just take a step even 
 farther back from that and look at the whole sequence of events on 
 the contact between the justice department and the white house.  as 
 you know and as we've said, the president spoke with the attorney 
 general on sunday, sunday afternoon.  they had a good discussion, 
 about 15 minutes.  the attorney general informed the president of 
 what she wanted to do.  he raised no objections.  obviously, she had 
 the implicit authority from the president to go forward.  he raised 
 no objections.  she went forward.  they had a discussion of a general 
 nature about the incident.
 	     
 	     again, yesterday morning around 11:00 a.m., the 
 president spoke with the attorney general again.  they had a brief 
 discussion over what was happening in waco.  as you know, this was 
 before the fire broke out at the compound.  and i think that was why 
 there was some -- just some confusion.  i think that she was 
 confusing in her minds before and after the fire, not the actual day 
 when they spoke.  
 	     
 	     then there was a number of contacts at a number of 
 different levels in the white house yesterday afternoon between the 
 justice department and the white house.  they were informing us of 
 
 their decisions, what they would like to do.  there was an fbi 
 briefing in waco.  the attorney general had her press conference.  
 the president then issued a statement after that.
 	     
 	     frankly, yesterday afternoon, you know, there was a fair 
 amount of confusion over exactly what was happening on the ground in 
 waco, and i think that we wanted to be very careful not to have the 
 president say anything until we had a much better sense of what was 
 actually happening on the ground.  once we were fairly clear on what 
 was happening on the ground in waco, the president issued a 
 statement.  he spoke with the attorney general again yesterday 
 evening.
 	     
 	     q	  at what hour was that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it was quite late.  i believe it 
 was after he returned from the holocaust museum.  he took a tour of 
 the holocaust museum last night.
 	     
 	     q	  and he went out to dinner.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe briefly.  yes, he went to 
 dinner and then he spoke with the attorney general last night.  i 
 don't know the exact time; i think it was relatively late.  and he 
 just said, i think as dee dee has reported, that he just wanted to 
 tell her that he thought she handled a difficult situation very well, 
 that she did a good job in a tough situation, and that she should try 
 and get some sleep.  he then, again, spoke with her this morning 
 about the follow-up in waco, and about what they're going to do this 
 afternoon.  as you know, the president will have an announcement to 
 make at 1:15.
 	     
 	     q	  did he ever talk with webb hubbell yesterday, last 
 night, or this morning?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not to my knowledge, no.
 	     
 	     q	  was webb hubbell the point man for the white house?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  webb hubbell is the general white 
 house liaison and several people talked to webb.  the attorney 
 general was running the operation.
 	     
 	     q	  did he tell her that she should sleep well, that 
 she had done a good job?  or he just tell her that she should get 
 some sleep?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think sleep well -- done a good 
 job -- i don't know the exact words.  i think that sounds right.
 	     
 	     q	  i mean, sleep well has implications as to 
 conscience and whether she should feel badly about it or not.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i mean, i think everybody 
 feels badly when you have a situation when --
 	     
 	     q	  i understand that, but whether the issue of blame 
 is brought up in that phraseology.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's the spirit -- no, it 
 has nothing to do with that.  the spirit with which it was offered 
 was that the entire administration and certainly the attorney general 
 had to face a very difficult decision, a very difficult situation 
 yesterday.  and that he thought that she had handled it well, as best 
 as she could and --
 	     
 	     q	  well, does he think it was mishandled?
 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  -- it was just speaking of warm 
 words to a friend.
 	     
 	     q	  does he think the situation was mishandled?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president --
 	     
 	     q	  in retrospect?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president stands  by the 
 decisions of the law enforcement agencies, the decisions of the 
 attorney general.  he accepts full responsibility.  at the same time, 
 i think that we all want to look to the future and figure out what 
 exactly happened, do a full review, and make sure we do what we can 
 to make sure this doesn't happen -- this kind of thing doesn't happen 
 again, or at least we know how to handle it.
 	     
 	     q	  how much did he know about what she was going to go 
 ahead with?  i know that she made the case to him -- explained --
 outlined the case for action.  did she say to him on sunday precisely 
 what action?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't think it was specific 
 operational detail as to what was going to happen.  i think that they 
 had a general discussion about the action, about the advisability of 
 action.  i think, as she noted, he asked a few general questions just 
 trying to get a sense of how things were considered.  but it wasn't 
 minute-by-minute detail of how the operation --
 	     
 	     q	  well, was it, "we are going in."  is it, "we're 
 going to use tear gas"?  i mean, what?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe it was that we want to go 
 in and take some action that would increase the pressure on those in 
 the compound, and hopefully spur them towards some sort of movement 
 out.
 	     
 	     q	  george, was there ever a conscious political 
 decision made, or even a discussion about distancing the president 
 from --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not at all.  i mean, we were in 
 close contact with the justice department.  the president accepts 
 responsibility for this.  at the same time -- i mean, we just wanted 
 to be very, very clear about how this happened and be as factual as 
 we could be on how the decisions were made.  it is the responsibility 
 of those on the ground to make recommendations.  the attorney general 
 has operational control over this.  the president obviously accepts 
 responsibility for all of this, and he stands by the attorney 
 general.
 	     
 	     q	  george, there was a report on the television today 
 -- and i don't know more than that -- one of the members of the cult 
 had said going into a courthouse that the fbi had started the fire 
 and not themselves.  there was also a picture yesterday on the tv of 
 a smashing into the building  where the fire broke out.  and my 
 question is, is the white house absolutely certain that this fire was 
 --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  all the evidence we have is that 
 this fire was started by david koresh and those inside the compound 
 -- every bit of evidence we have.
 	     
 	     q	  did the president ask the attorney general why do 
 this now, why this particular date, and did he ask about possible 
 consequences of either death or injury?
 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know the specific 
 questions.  he had general questions about how the decision was going 
 about being made.
 	     
 	     q	  those are general questions and did he ask 
 generally, why now?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he asked, have you 
 considered all of the consequences; have you considered the 
 recommendations?  i don't know if he asked the question, "why now?  "  
 i don't know if he asked that specific question.
 	     
 	     q	  did she tell him why now in terms of the stuff 
 that's come out since then about the information provided by the 
 listening device about koresh getting increasingly more violent?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i'm not certain how much 
 specific detail they got into.  i know that she generally said that 
 this is the recommendation she's prepared to make, i mean, the 
 decision she's prepared to make.  it's based on the recommendations 
 she was receiving from the field and after intensive questioning of 
 those involved.  again, i do not know how precisely detailed it was 
 beyond that.
 	     
 	     q	  what is the president's understanding why 
 yesterday?  one of the people who went into the compound a couple 
 weeks ago came out over the weekend with some speculation that he may 
 have told law enforcement people something that precipitated this 
 action.  why yesterday?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  this is the first i've heard.  i 
 think what we can go to is what the fbi and the attorney general has 
 said.  there were indications that those inside the compound were at 
 some danger.  it was clear that the negotiations had broken down and 
 it was the judgment of the experts involved in the negotiations that 
 the situation was not going to get any better at all.  
 	     
 	     there was also some concern over the vulnerability of 
 the agents themselves who had been working long beyond the time that 
 these teams normally have to work.  and as the attorney general has 
 said, there was some concern over the fact that they did not have 
 replacements in place who could stand in for them, and there was a 
 concern over the safety.  
 	     
 	     all of these factors came into play.  they also 
 considered the advice of a number of psychologists and other experts 
 on david koresh and those in the compound.  i would just go back to 
 what the attorney general has said.  you have to make the best 
 judgment you can, given the information you have at the time.  they 
 did.  obviously, we all regret the loss of life.  it's a terribly 
 unfortunate situation.  we all wish it could have turned out 
 differently, but that doesn't take away from the judgments that were 
 made at the time.
 	     
 	     q	  george, when did the president know that they were 
 going to use tear gas?  was it before the assault on the compound?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i just don't know.  i don't believe 
 he was given a lot of detail on exactly how the operation would go.  
 i just don't know.
 	     
 	     q	  along that point, george, can you say whether the 
 plan was presented to the president by the attorney general as a way 
 to end the standoff one way or the other yesterday?
 	     
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it was presented as a way 
 to increase the pressure on those in the compound and, we all hoped, 
 as a way to move some of those out and bring it in -- it wasn't 
 presented as tomorrow is d-day, this is it.
 	     
 	     q	  is the president satisfied that, a, he had all this 
 relevant information necessary to make a decision, and b, that janet 
 reno had all the relevant information necessary to make a decision?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  oh, i think he's satisfied that 
 they were acting on the best advice and the best information they 
 had, and he's not second-guessing it in any way whatsoever.
 	     
 	     q	  george, was there a 12-hour gap between 
 conversations between the president and the attorney general?  in 
 other words, they spoke at 11:00 a.m. and they didn't speak again 
 until clinton got back from dinner at --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that's likely, yes.
 	     
 	     q	  did he call her?  what time did she call?  was 
 there a gap between when she called him?  i mean, was he at dinner 
 when she called and --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, no, no.  i think he called her 
 last night.  i couldn't swear to it, but i believe he called her last 
 night.  he just wanted to talk to her.
 	     
 	     q	     what was going on?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not that i know of, no.
 	     
 	     q	  what do you know about the situation now?  everyone 
 has perished who -- except eight or nine?  and do you know any of the 
 other details?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know any more details than 
 the fbi reported in waco.
 	     
 	     q	     watching cnn or how was he keeping track of what 
 is going on?  if he wasn't talking to his attorney general, how was 
 he keeping track of what was going on here?  i mean, with all due 
 respect to cnn, is that how he was doing it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  there was also -- as i said, 
 several people in the white house were in constant contact with their 
 counterparts at justice to have the full and complete information.
 	     
 	     q	  who were those contacts?  i mean, was it mack 
 mclarty, webb hubbell?  how was the president being kept informed?  
 that's not a --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i believe mack was in contact with 
 webb.  i spoke with several people at the justice department.  i 
 believe bruce lindsey spoke with people at the justice department.  
 either bernie or vince was also in contact at different times during 
 the day with people at the justice department.  we were fully briefed 
 and fully informed.
 	     
 	     q	  we were told this morning that the president may 
 have spoken -- a chance that he may have spoken with webb.  do you 
 know if that's true or not?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think there's a chance he may 
 have.  i don't believe he did, but i think there's certainly a chance 
 that he may have at some point.  i don't believe he did.  i think 
 that the last contact he had during the day yesterday directly with 
 
 the justice department was the 11:00 a.m. phone call with the 
 attorney general.  but the white house was fully informed on a 
 minute-to-minute basis of what was happening in waco and what was 
 happening at the justice department.
 	     
 	     q	  george, who decided that the briefing would be done 
 by the attorney general?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the attorney general.
 	     
 	     q	  did you or did the white house communications staff 
 -- were you ever involved with that decision?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  we were told about it.
 	     
 	     q	  did you ask her to go on nightline and macneil-
 lehrer and all that stuff?  was that part of --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.
 	     
 	     q	     there was no advice from the white house at all 
 about her -- she was on all night, all day.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes, and she did a very good job. 
 	     
 	     q	  why did you decide to have the president's reaction 
 to the situation be only a written statement, which is traditionally 
 the white house's way of distancing the president from the issue, not 
 having him appear as personally saying anything?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, that wasn't the intent at 
 all.  as i said, we had to -- we wanted to wait until we had all of 
 the information at hand.  the president is also making a statement 
 today.  the president made a statement yesterday morning.  the 
 president has been fully involved --
 	     
 	     q	  after this turned into less than a successful 
 operation, the only statement from the president was what was on 
 paper after the attorney general had already given what amounted to 
 the major facts in this.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, it was the first statement 
 from the president, not the only statement from the president, number 
 one.  
 	     
 	     q	  after the --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  number two -- well, the first.  
 number two, the attorney general --
 	     
 	     q	  he gave a statement early in the morning when the 
 thing was starting to move --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  right.  and he gave one yesterday 
 and he's giving one today.  now, the second point --
 	     
 	     q	  it just happens this was a written statement with 
 no sort of communications policy or thought process involved?  it was 
 the president wants to put out a written statement?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  knowing what we knew at the time, 
 we thought it was appropriate for the president and he thought it was 
 appropriate to put out a written statement expressing his regret and 
 expressing his support for the attorney general's --
 	     
 	     q	  why was it not appropriate for him to personally do 
 something?
 
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, he did personally do so.  
 that is his statement.  it's a statement under his name.
 	     
 	     q	  george, yesterday during the briefing you didn't 
 say the president took full responsibility for what happened --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i certainly did.
 	     
 	     q	  no, what you said was --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  that's just not right, susan.
 	     
 	     q	  well, i think you can go back to the transcript, i 
 mean, unless i miss something --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'd love to.
 	     
 	     q	     janet reno said that she took full 
 responsibility and you said that she made the decision, that the fbi 
 --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  and the president takes 
 responsibility.  absolutely.
 	     
 	     q	  took responsibility -- all right.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  check the transcript.
 	     
 	     q	  considering how little was known about what was 
 going on inside the compound and, even now, how little is known, why 
 is washington calling this a mass suicide?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i think that knowing what we 
 know now and given all of the actions of david koresh before and 
 during, it is painfully clear that those there were under his 
 control.
 	     
 	     q	  it's stretching it a little bit where the kids are 
 concerned, though, isn't it, george?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that that is an entirely 
 different matter.  i mean, i think that david koresh must bear 
 responsibility for the deaths of those children, absolutely.  but he 
 clearly was intent on creating some kind of an apocalyptic incident, 
 and that's what he did.
 	     
 	     q	  you're still operating completely on assumption, 
 right?  i mean, you have no evidence, or you know of no evidence that 
 this was mass suicide.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we have evidence that those inside 
 the compound set fire to the compound, which led to the deaths of 
 those inside.
 	     
 	     q	  i didn't quite hear it.  this might be ann's 
 question, i didn't quite hear it.  but at what time did clinton 
 himself put out a statement on this?  i know dee dee said some stuff 
 on this at 6:00 p.m., but the president put out --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  at 6:35 p.m., 6:40 p.m.
 	     
 	     q	  right after the evening news went on the air?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, right when we had all the 
 information.  we were working on it.
 	     
 
 	     q 	  dee dee confirmed this morning that the 
 investigation the president is going to announce is going to be an 
 administration-run investigation.  why not have someone from the 
 outside to make sure that it's not colored by those who would have a 
 political stake, particularly those at the atf whose actions have 
 already been --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think that clearly the atf and 
 the justice department will bear responsibility for the 
 investigation.  that's not to rule out, as is often in investigations 
 like this, having some sort of independent involvement as well.  but 
 it will be run by the treasury and justice. 
 	     
 	     q	  are you confident that you will not have any 
 problem getting --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely.
 	     
 	     q	  george, did the president reach out to anybody else 
 to get advice after the meeting with janet reno?  and who else in the 
 white house sat in on that meeting?  anyone else from justice?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't believe anybody else was 
 there at the time.  it was a phone call on monday, it wasn't a 
 meeting.
 	     
 	     q	  sunday.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  sunday.  it was a phone call, it 
 wasn't a meeting.  i believe he might have been there with bruce, but 
 beyond that, i think he just talked to the attorney general.
 	     
 	     q	  george, you said that in that phone call, she said 
 that we want to go in and take action, as you said, that will force 
 him out.  what did he think she was talking about?  if he didn't know 
 about tear gas, what exactly was his idea of what he was approving?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he was approving an action 
 to increase the pressure on --
 	     
 	     qq	   it didn't matter how she did that?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no, no.  i mean --
 	     
 	     q	  what information did he have in terms of how this 
 would proceed?  presumably he would have wanted to know, not minute-
 by-minute, but in a general sense --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he knew that this was the 
 recommendation of those on the ground and the recommendation of the 
 law enforcement agencies.  i just don't know --
 	     
 	     q	  what is "this" -- when you say that "this" was the 
 recommendation --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the action to increase pressure.  i 
 don't know exactly what he was told -- whether he was going to be 
 told that the tank was going to go up to the left wall and punch a 
 hole in the window, or whether he was just told generally that they 
 were moving forward in a way that would increase the pressure.  i 
 just don't know.
 	     
 	     q	  it's hard to imagine him not asking, though.
 	     
 	     q	     that janet reno presented him with as her best 
 advice about what they should go forward with, he would have agreed?
 	     
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  he was -- he did ask some general 
 questions about the advice and recommendation he gave.  at the same 
 time -- and i would repeat -- that this was based on the unanimous 
 recommendation of the law enforcement agencies involved.
 	     
 	     q	  george, it would seem that this question about just 
 exactly in what detail the president was informed about the nature of 
 the operation is going to come up again here and elsewhere.  can you 
 take that question and --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely.  yes.
 	     
 	     q	     get the answer and come back to us with all of 
 it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  can you tell us that there was never a meeting -- a 
 strategy session -- where you and others decided, we will put out a 
 written statement from the president and we will have janet reno be 
 on all of these television broadcasts?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  never.  never.
 	     
 	     q	  and you never called the justice department and 
 said to anyone or janet reno, "you're the one who needs to be out 
 front explaining this"?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not once.
 	     
 	     q	  it just happened that way that she was the 
 spokesman, that no one ever saw bill sessions until --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  she made a decision as attorney 
 general that it was important for her as the operational officer in 
 charge, as the person who made the decision, to go out and take the 
 questions on this tragic incident.
 	     
 	     q	  she had no guidance from the white house at all?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we certainly didn't object.
 	     
 	     q	  but did you -- (laughter) -- no, i'm sure you 
 didn't object, but did you suggest it?  was this a plan --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no. absolutely not.
 	     
 	     q	     a strategy?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.
 	     
 	     q	  did she clear it?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.
 	     
 	     q	  did she notify you?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  we certainly knew about it.
 	     
 	     q	  what happened to this great detailed process you 
 have for clearing and talking to every public information officer and 
 every -- under every rock and every place in government that 
 something as major as this could have occurred without a discussion 
 between you and the public information people at least at the justice 
 department?
 	     
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the attorney general made the 
 decision and the attorney general wanted to go forward.  it seemed 
 like a good decision.  it was a good decision.  she did a good job.
 	     
 	     q	  let me ask it this way, george, if in hindsight how 
 you would handle it?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it was handled very well.
 	     
 	     q	  you wouldn't change a thing if --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  change what?
 	     
 	     q	  the way the white house handled any part of it -- 
 from start to finish.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i think that's an awful broad 
 question and we're certainly going to have a review.  one of the 
 reasons for the investigation is to look for ways in the future that 
 something like this -- see what we can learn from an incident like 
 this and see what we can learn about how to handle them.  if you're 
 talking specifically about the issue of the press conferences, no, 
 there -- wouldn't make any change at all.
 	     
 	     q	  two questions:  first of all, on her going on tv, 
 no white house people or outside media consultants came up with this 
 idea?  it's just very reminiscent of what you guys did during the 
 campaign.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  how so?
 	     
 	     q	  i'm thinking of like watching clinton on nightline 
 after the draft story; watching clinton on --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  there's absolutely no comparison.  
 yesterday there was a law enforcement incident.  the incident ended 
 in tragic deaths of many, many people.  the attorney general was 
 involved in that decision.  the attorney general made the decision to 
 do that.  she felt it was her responsibility in the interest of 
 public information to go out and take the questions of the press in 
 order to make sure that all of the questions were answered, and she 
 did a fantastic job.
 	     
 	     q	  the second question is, did -- as someone who knows 
 clinton as well as you do, can you understand why it's sort of hard 
 to believe that he might not have asked some detailed questions about 
 what she intended to do?  in other words, she came and she said, i'm 
 going to put pressure on them.  it's hard not to see clinton, who's 
 fairly intelligent and inquisitive, asking how.
 	     
 	     q	  what kind?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  both the attorney general said that 
 he did ask questions, he did ask general questions.  i don't have a 
 minute-by-minute account of the conversation.
 	     
 	     q	  how long a conversation?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think it was about 15 minutes.
 	     
 	     q	  telephone conversation?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  george, was the federal cost of this standoff ever 
 a consideration in terms of stepping up the pressure --
 	     
 
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't believe so, no.
 	     
 	     q	  george, you keep saying that the president takes 
 full responsibility, but then you refer to it as her decision.  does 
 the president not accept the fact that as commander-in-chief, it is 
 ultimately his decision?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know what this has to do 
 with commander-in-chief.  this was a law enforcement action, not a 
 military action.  and he clearly takes responsibility for the 
 decisions of the law enforcement agencies involved taken in his 
 government.  i mean, i think there's just no ambiguity about that.
 	     
 	     q	  but is he accepting it as his decision as well as 
 hers, or is he saying it's her decision?  there's a difference.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  as a matter of fact, it was her 
 decision.  he did not object to that decision.  he clearly takes full 
 responsibility. 
 	     
 	     q	  george, this briefing has gone on just a little 
 over 15 minutes, and as you can see a lot of things can be exchanged.  
 what exactly did they spend 15 minutes talking about if it was just 
 very general?  that's a long period of time in a phone conversation.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  it is an awful long phone 
 conversation.  it was a very important phone conversation.  i think 
 brit has asked that we take the question, and i've said that i would.
 	     
 	     q	  one of the things reno said last night is that the 
 buck stops here.  i think that was her direct quotation.  does the 
 president agree with that in this case?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  the president says he accepts full 
 responsibility.  i think what the attorney general was saying is that 
 she made a decision, that she's going to accept all the 
 responsibility that comes to her.  and she's not shrinking from that 
 at all, but neither is the president. 
 	     
 	     q	  at any point in the conversation last night between 
 the president and the attorney general or this morning, did she ever 
 offer her a resignation?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not to my knowledge. 
 	     
 	     q	  even before the fire was out yesterday, there were 
 some republicans on capitol hill calling for an investigation.  is 
 the white house at all concerned about the timing of those requests 
 trying to make political hay out of this situation?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  and i don't want to cast any 
 questions about the motives of those who are requesting 
 investigation.  we want an investigation, and we'll have a full and 
 complete investigation.
 	     
 	     q	  in what forum will you answer brit's question?  
 will you put out a written statement?  will you -- the wires?  how 
 will you answer the question that you've taken?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'm just not sure.
 	     
 	     q	  george, can you remind us what the president was 
 doing all yesterday afternoon, where he was, and what meetings he was 
 involved in?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i'll have to try and remember.  he 
 had a series of meetings with different members of the staff during 
 
 the afternoon.  he was certainly monitoring the situation in waco and 
 getting periodic reports on that as well.  he did see some on cnn as 
 well.  i believe he saw a fair amount of the fbi press briefing as 
 well.
 	     
 	     q	  and those reports would have come to him from mack 
 mclarty, would they -- do you think?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  mack talked to him, bruce talked to 
 him, i talked to him.
 	     
 	     q	  george, to follow helen's question, in their 
 conversation this morning did they discuss at all her statement last 
 night in response to the question about whether she would resign?  
 did he say, i don't know why you felt the need to say that?  i'm here 
 to reassure you that you don't have to do this?  did that come up at 
 all?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if it even came up 
 that specifically.  i know that the bulk of the conversation was 
 discussing where do we go from here and what form the investigation 
 --
 	     
 	     q	   the didn't talk at all about her kind of 
 remarkable comment last night about --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  well, i believe she was asked a 
 question.
 	     
 	     q	  and her response was, if the president wants me to, 
 i will.
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  which would be, i think, the 
 standard response that most cabinet members would give.  i mean, it's 
 a conditional statement.
 	     
 	     q	     have a need to talk about whether -- personally 
 about whether the president wanted her --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know if they talked about 
 it.  i mean, what i learned about the conversation was that it was 
 largely about the investigation itself.  and this just didn't come 
 up.  i did not ask the question if they talked about --
 	     
 	     q	  will you take that with the brit package?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  certainly.  (laughter.)
 	     
 	     q	  george, for the record, does the president want her 
 to resign?  i know dee dee answered this morning --
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  absolutely not.  he supports janet 
 reno.  she's a good attorney general.  she's done a good job.  she 
 handled a difficult situation extremely well.
 	     
 	     q	  george, does the president feel that he and janet 
 reno were let down by the unanimous professional advice from the law 
 enforcement experts on the ground?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  no.  and the president is not 
 second-guessing that decision and those recommendations in any way.  
 that is not to say that he doesn't regret the loss of life.  
 everybody regrets the loss of life in this situation.  but the best 
 judgments were made in a difficult situation based on the best 
 information we had.
 	     
 
 	     q	  george, the 15-minute conversation was the one on 
 sunday, is that correct?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  yes.
 	     
 	     q	  how long was the one at 11:00 a.m. yesterday 
 morning?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i don't know.  i'll take that 
 question, too.
 	     
 	     q	  were these outside experts that they were 
 consulting with, or experts within the atf and the fbi?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  you'd have to ask them.  i'm just 
 not sure.  i know that there were several experts.
 	     
 	     q	  and also, why weren't there replacements for these 
 people?  is the unit that small?  
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  again, i think it is a very small 
 highly-specialized unit.  but i think it's one of the kinds of things 
 that the investigation will examine.
 	     
 	     q	  george, isn't there a factor here involving the fbi 
 director?  normally, a president, when he wants to get information, 
 doesn't only asks the attorney general.  i know the chain of command.  
 but presidents talk to their fbi directors.  in this case, throughout 
 this entire siege, he has not felt that he could pick up the phone 
 and talk to bill sessions, who is from waco, and get expertise from 
 him on what to do and what not to do?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  i think he talked to the fbi 
 director well in the beginning of the situation when it first broke 
 out in waco.  at the same time, the attorney general bears the 
 ultimate responsibility and he was getting fully briefed from the 
 attorney general.
 	     
 	     q	  don't you think the ambiguous situation that 
 director sessions is in has some impact on the way the president is 
 briefed and on the way that all of this evolved?
 	     
 	     mr. stephanopoulos:  not at all.  i mean, it's perfectly 
 appropriate that he be briefed by the attorney general and that the 
 attorney general has supervisory authority over the fbi director, and 
 that's following the chain of command.
 	     
 	     the press:  thank you .
 
                                  end                    1:03 p.m. edt
 	     
 #60-04/20
 	     
 
 