
 
 
 
                          the white house
 
 
                   office of the press secretary
 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
 for immediate release                             april 23, 1993
 
 
 
                      background information:
 
                     advancing u.s. relations 
         with russia and the other new independent states 
 
                          april 23, 1993
 
 
 at the vancouver summit, president clinton and president yeltsin 
 agreed to pursue a number of measures designed to implement an 
 economic and strategic partnership between the u.s. and russia.  
 since then, president clinton has directed that a number of steps 
 be taken to move this process forward.  the administration is 
 announcing a number of steps today in order to underscore its 
 deep commitment to a new and closer partnership with russia based 
 on its government's commitment to reform.
 
 
 executive review of cold war laws
 
 president clinton and president yeltsin discussed the 
 desirability of reviewing and updating u.s. laws and regulations 
 to reflect the end of the cold war.  congress has already acted 
 to revise many laws to reflect the fact that a communist soviet 
 union has been replaced by a democratic russia and other 
 independent states.  however, many laws and regulations remain 
 that contain language and restrictions that fail to reflect the 
 end of the cold war and that unnecessarily undermine relations 
 with russia and the other new independent states.
 
 the president today has ordered an executive review of laws and 
 regulations so that, where appropriate and consistent with u.s. 
 security and other national interests, such provisions can be 
 revised or removed.  he has asked ambassador-at-large strobe 
 talbott to coordinate this review on an expedited basis.  the 
 president has indicated that he will welcome congressional 
 efforts to help this review proceed as quickly as possible.
 
 this review will weigh all considerations that pertain to 
 revision of such provisions, and the initiation of the review may 
 help to remedy some of the circumstances that have justified such 
 provisions in the past.  for example, because the russians are 
 eager to have their status changed under the jackson-vanik 
 legislation, president yeltsin personally assured president 
 clinton in vancouver that he would look into individual cases 
 involving continuing restrictions on emigration from russia.  by 
 addressing such issues, this review can help strengthen the bonds 
 of trust and partnership between the u.s. and russia, and between
 the u.s. and the other new independent states.
 
 
 review of cocom
 
 it is also time to consider expeditiously with america's allies 
 the future of another cold war institution -- the coordinating 
 committee for multilateral export controls (cocom).  the united 
 states has begun a thorough review of how to reorient export 
 controls to the post-cold war world, in which russia is no longer 
 viewed as a potential adversary, but as a potential ally in 
 combatting the proliferation of sensitive technology.
 
 steps to improve the security relationship
 
 the president also has taken steps to move ahead on a range of 
 efforts discussed in vancouver that can strengthen u.s. security 
 and improve our security relationship with the russians and the 
 other states.
 
 
 accelerated deactivation of nuclear weapons
 
 in vancouver, the two presidents discussed accelerating the 
 process of deactivating nuclear strategic systems scheduled for 
 elimination under the start i treaty.  president clinton has 
 directed the department of defense to complete this process well 
 in advance of the seven year reduction period outlined in start 
 i.  in addition, the united states, together with russia and the 
 other relevant states of the former soviet union, will be 
 exploring programs under nunn-lugar to help them to accelerate 
 this process.
 
 
 multilateral test ban
 
 the two presidents agreed at vancouver that negotiations on a 
 multilateral nuclear test ban should commence at an early date, 
 and that the two governments would consult with each other 
 accordingly.  the united states looks forward to beginning 
 consultations with russia, our allies, and other states, on the 
 specific issues related to this negotiation.  the united states 
 expects to start this consultative process within the next two 
 months.    
 
 
 detargeting
 
 the two presidents also began a dialogue on the issue of nuclear 
 targeting at vancouver.  as the united states and russia move 
 into a new relationship of strategic partnership, there is a need 
 to reexamine many of the assumptions and means employed in the 
 past to safeguard u.s. security against a nuclear adversary.  the 
 administration is beginning a comprehensive review of measures 
 that could enhance strategic stability, including recent 
 proposals for detargeting nuclear missiles.   
 
 other measures to create a new security relationship
 
 in response to the incident involving a collision between us and 
 russian submarines last month, secretary aspin will be ready to 
 discuss ways to avoid such incidents in the future with russian 
 defense minister grachev during his visit to the united states in 
 late may.
 
 secretary aspin will also be prepared to move forward with 
 defense minister grachev in may to develop a combined training 
 program between our two military forces and to prepare for joint 
 exercises in peacekeeping, such as that authorized by the un 
 security council.  the united states looks forward to broadening 
 such training and exercises to include other peacekeeping 
 contributors, in order to improve inter-operability, readiness, 
 and planning for multilateral peacekeeping operations.  the us 
 and russia are working together to convene a may ministerial 
 meeting of the un security council to discuss proposals for 
 enhancing the un's peacekeeping capability and to move 
 consideration of the secretary-general's agenda for peace from 
 the discussion to the implementation phase.  the u.s. is also 
 working with the russians to focus specifically on improvements 
 in the financing and management of un operations.  the purpose of 
 these initiatives will be to cooperate on peacekeeping for our 
 participation in un or csce sponsored actions.
 
 
 multilateral and bilateral partnership with reform
 
 finally, the administration continues to move ahead on a range of 
 initiatives aimed at striking a partnership with economic and 
 political reformers throughout russia and the other states.  the 
 administration is continuing work with our g-7 partners to 
 assemble the package of multilateral assistance that secretaries 
 bentsen and christopher recently negotiated in tokyo.  and the 
 administration is continuing consultation with congress over the 
 further efforts the u.s. will take to assist the process of 
 reform in russia and the other states.
 
                            *    *    *
 
 the administration believes these steps can increase american 
 security while improving the relationship between the u.s. and 
 russia, and between the u.s. and the other new independent 
 states.
 
                                -30-
 
 
 