A MAN stabbed through the heart in a street fight was battling for life in hospital last night.
Peter Stewart, 43, was attacked after a confrontation with a pair of knifemen which also left his older brother, James, 45, seriously injured.
Police are treating the attack in a stairwell in Edinburgh’s Wardieburn housing scheme as attempted murder and are investigating if it could have been linked to drug dealing.
Officers are said to be suspicious of claims that Peter and James, both from Aberdeen, had travelled to the tough scheme on Wednesday evening to buy an Audi car.
A source close to the inquiry said: “The level of violence involved suggests there may be much more to this incident than a simple car scam.
“It bears all the hallmarks of some kind of fallout over drugs, an unpaid debt or something along those lines.
“It’s hard to believe the victims would have been so naive as to drive to one of the most 
deprived and crime-ridden parts of Edinburgh to buy a luxury car. Aberdeen is awash with high-end luxury cars. Why travel to a place like Pilton to buy an Audi?
“It just doesn’t add up. It may have been an innocent mistake on the part of the victims but the amount of violence involved was brutal.”
Residents near the scene of the attack spoke of their horror at hearing chilling screams.
Keith Crawley, 45, who has lived in the street for 20 years, said: “I was sitting in the living room and I heard someone shouting for help. It was two or three times but could have been more.
“I ignored it at first because I thought it was just someone messing around but when I looked out I saw the car and the man lying on the ground.
“There was another bald guy there with him and then a woman appeared wearing rubber gloves. She looked like a nurse or something, which is lucky.”
Another neighbour said: “A woman was driving by and stopped her car when she saw the guy on the pavement.
“She jumped out and put these rubber gloves on and started working away at him. She kept holding his chest.”
 

One woman from the block where the attack happened said she heard a “five-minute argument” between the men.
She said: “The guys that did it don’t live here, I’ve never seen them before.
“But both doors to the block are broken so they’ve obviously just used this one.”
Police say the 43-year-old man, who was last night in critical condition, got into his car and drove around the corner before having to stop.
The other victim, who is in a serious but stable condition, was found nearby.
One suspect was 17-19, with light, short hair shaved at the sides and the second a stocky man in his mid-20s.
Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Houston said: “This attack happened in daylight and we believe there may be a number of witnesses who may have seen the suspects in the area.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

