A DRUNKEN knifeman was jailed yesterday for attacking a taxi driver in a bust-up that ended in a friend’s death.
Ethan Hughes, 23, drew a curved hunting knife and struck the cabbie in the eye as the taxi sat on the hard shoulder of the M8.
Hughes’s pal Murray D’Angelo, 28, then got out and tried to cross the motorway but was hit by two cars and killed.
Through his lawyer, Hughes told a court he blames himself for Murray’s death.
A sheriff jailed him for 26 months for the knife attack.
The tragedy happened on December 6 last year after taxi driver Jan Smialek picked up Hughes, Murray and a third man in Edinburgh.
They had been to a function at Tynecastle stadium and then a house party, and had been drinking.
Hughes got in the front seat and Murray and the other man sat in the back.
Jan was asked to go to Chesser Avenue in the city and then Livingston, but one of the men then told him to go to Livingston first.
An argument broke out and Murray and the other man in the back began fighting.
Hughes shouted at them to stop and told Jan to stop the taxi. Jan pulled on to the hard shoulder between the Hermiston and Gogar junctions.
Prosecutor Brian Robertson told Edinburgh Sheriff Court that Hughes got out, went to the back seat and tried to calm the other two down.
 

Meanwhile, Jan pressed the emergency button in the cab. His controller asked if everything was OK and he said no and asked for police to be called.
The situation in the taxi then seemed to calm down, and Jan spoke to the control room again and asked them not to call police.
But when Hughes heard the end of that conversation, and the word “police”, he went berserk.
He pulled his knife on Jan and threatened to kill him if he didn’t go to Livingston. There was a struggle and Jan was struck in the eye with the blade.
Jan jumped out of the taxi and ran across the motorway. A lorry driver saw him waving his arms on the hard shoulder and stopped, and Jan got in his cab and told him what had happened.
“He was terrified and distressed,” Mr Robertson said. “He had scratches to his eye and considered himself lucky not to lose it.”
Murray, a friend of Rangers star Lee Wallace, also got out of the taxi and tried to cross the road but was struck and killed.
Andrew Aitken, defending, told the court: “My client feels personally responsible for that.
“It is something that will stay with him for the rest of his life”.
Mr Aitken said Hughes had panicked when he heard Jan mention the police because he feared he would be jailed for carrying a knife. He had drawn the blade “to persuade the driver to take them home”.
The lawyer said Hughes had begun using cocaine after his parents split up, and suffered from paranoia.
He said he took the knife from the kitchen at the party because he had seen “two individuals he knew” and feared he would be attacked while waiting for the taxi.
Mr Aitken said Hughes had expressed remorse throughout the case, both to Jan and for Murray.
Hughes, a prisoner at Addiewell jail, pled guilty at an earlier hearing to the knife assault.
Sheriff Alistair Noble toldhim: “This case can only be dealt with by way of a prison sentence.
“It must have been terrifying for the taxi driver. He might have lost his eye, and his running across the M8 placed his life in considerable danger.”
He ordered Hughes to be supervised for 12 months after his release.

