HAILSTONES and showers have been battering Andy Murray's wedding venue just hours before his marriage to Kim Sears, threatening to cast a shadow over the event.
The couple will exchange vows at Dunblane Cathedral followed by a reception at Cromlix House, the luxury hotel owned by the 27-year-old.
The British tennis number one tweeted a picture of an umbrella in what appears to be a preview of the day in emojis on his Twitter account.
The tweet also features a picture of a church, a ring, a kiss, cake, drinks including beer, cocktails and wine and ends with hearts, a face throwing a kiss and several Zzzz icons for sleep.
The forecast for the rest of the day is not promising, with heavy rain showers predicted for 2pm and light rain showers for 4pm, around when the ceremony is expected to take place.
Fans have already begun to gather outside the 12th-century cathedral, sheltering under umbrellas in the hope of securing a prime view of the action, with the ceremony scheduled for late afternoon.
Hundreds of the world's media are also in place to capture the event which has sparked interest around the globe.
 

Murray took a moment out of his wedding preparations to chat on Twitter this morning about a pre-wedding snooker game last night.
Tennis player Jamie Delgado tweeted: &quot;Pre-wedding snooker ended in another victory for guess who? Andy Murray, Rosco Hutchins, Johnny Delgado,&quot; to which Murray replied: &quot;Jamie Delgado, Rosco Hutchins, Johnny Delgado, last night was actual carnage for those boys I couldn't believe it.&quot;
The ceremony is expected to be conducted by the Rev Colin Renwick.
Murray said recently he will have three best men - his brother Jamie and friends Ross Hutchins and Carlos Mier.
Sussex-born Sears, also 27, will have four bridesmaids but the style and design of her bridal gown has so far remained a secret.
Several names from the world of tennis are likely to be on the guest list, with former British number one Tim Henman among those tipped to appear.
The proud Perthshire community of Dunblane has spent the last few days decorating the high street with bunting.

Murray fans have been posting their best wishes on social media and Scotland's First Minister has offered her congratulations.
Nicola Sturgeon said: &quot;I send my warm congratulations to Andy and Kim on their big day and wish them all the very best for a long and happy life together.
&quot;Saturday promises to be a great day for Dunblane. Andy is a local hero there but he is also a Scottish sporting superstar, and the whole nation will be delighted for him and his new wife.&quot;
Reports suggest Murray and Ms Sears had originally planned to marry at a chapel within the grounds of Cromlix House, which Murray purchased two years ago, but later opted for the 300-seat cathedral.

The couple met in 2005 through tennis circles - her father Nigel is a coach and former head of women's tennis at the Lawn Tennis Association.
They moved in together in 2008 and briefly split the following year before rekindling their relationship.
Speculation about their engagement was fuelled by Murray who, responding to a fan's question on Twitter last year, joked that he would marry Ms Sears after Wimbledon.
He was forced to point out that he was not serious, but announced his engagement for real in November.
Murray told BBC Sport last month: &quot;I am actually not nervous about getting married because we've been together like nine and a half years and we've lived together for six or seven years as well.
&quot;So, I don't think a whole lot's going to change. I kind of feel like we have been married already in terms of the way we spend our lives together and live together.
&quot;I think I will be more nervous about starting a family because that would be more life-changing, in a good way.&quot;
Follow our liveblog of today's wedding for the latest updates.
Test your knowledge with our showbiz quiz:

