THE father of a Scot who drowned in the pool of a luxury villa in Spain has told how he heard of his son’s death in Spain via Facebook.
Brian Nicol, 32, had only been in Marbella for 12 hours before tragedy struck.
He went swimming after returning to the luxury villa from a night out with family and friends. Brian dived in to the pool but failed to surface.
Police were called at 8.30am on Sunday.
Brian had arrived in the upmarket town the previous evening with his partner Chris Smith, and Chris’ parents Janice and Jim.
 

They managed to drag Brian from the pool and made frantic efforts to revive him.
Paramedics also rushed to the scene but there was nothing they could do.
Brian’s heartbroken dad Colin, 55, yesterday said he only found out about the tragedy through Chris and his family.
Colin, from Cambuslang near Glasgow, said: “They were just in the pool and everything seemed to be alright. Janice thought Brian was behind her. But he wasn’t.
“The poor woman is breaking her heart. Brian was like a son to her, her son-in-law.
“He went everywhere with Chris, Jim and Janice.”
Colin said Chris contacted his family on Sunday to break the news.
 

He added: “Chris messaged my sister on Facebook asking her to contact him urgently.
“She phoned him and was told my son was dead.
“She phoned me to tell me. No one from the Foreign Office, no police, nothing.
“I spent since Sunday trying to phone the Foreign Office, nothing.
“My oldest son Barry talked to someone at the Foreign Office in London. He was supposed to email us details, nothing.
“I’m angry that they are saying they’ve done this and done that. They’ve done nothing.”
Colin and Brian’s mum Vera, also 55, divorced in 1993 and have both remarried.
Colin, wife Margaret, 57, and son Barry, 35, have been left devastated.
He says he called police at Marbella who said they had no number for the British consolate and the family then tried calling the Foreign Office in London.
Finally, they went to Rutherglen police station, where they were advised to get back in touch with the Foreign Office.
Colin said: “My sister got a Facebook message. She had to phone me and then she had to phone my other son. Then she had to travel to see his grandmother.
“That’s how we got word that Brian had died. Chris, Jim and Janice were like family to him.
“Any information we got, we got from them. I’ve read the Foreign Office are saying they are offering assistance. I’ve heard nothing from them.”
