PRINCE Charles’ former school in Scotland is at the centre of historic child abuse claims.
A series of alleged sexual assaults at Gordonstoun in Moray have been uncovered.
The allegations centre on junior school Aberlour House, where the Queen’s sons were educated.
One of the cases involves a victim claiming she was raped aged 12 in a tent by a teacher on a school camping trip.
Her alleged attacker was arrested in 2013 after she spoke out but a trial collapsed when a second witness, required by Scots law, withdrew.
The woman contacted police after 100 former pupils started a Facebook campaign to get the school to recognise historical problems of bullying, abuse and inadequate child protection.
Another alleged incident involved a 12-year-old boy who was assaulted in his dormitory by English teacher Derek Jones.
This was reported to police at the time but was dropped by the pupil’s parents after a promise Jones would never teach again.
However, he did return to teach in England and offended at a school. He died five years ago in a car crash.
Gordonstoun say they have contacted with the former pupils group, “expressing deep concern for everyone affected, and urging anyone with evidence of criminal behaviour to contact police.”
They also promised to provide support for those who wanted it.
A spokeswoman for the school added they had co-operated fully with the police in the past and would do so in the future.
She said: “In late 2013 we became aware of a number of allegations of unacceptable and potentially criminal behaviour dating from the 1980s and early 1990s.
“We were deeply shocked and saddened by these allegations.
“When we became aware of them we informed the police and offered our full support.”
There have been calls for the corroboration law, which stopped the alleged tent rape case coming to court, to be changed.
A Rape Crisis spokesman said: “This alleged case shows again the urgent need for Scottish law to be adapted to address the reality of sexual crime.”

