THEIR rumoured love story became public with a teenage kiss on camera as Andy celebrated one of his first major wins on court 10 years ago.
Today, the world-famous tennis star confirms the love of his life by marrying his biggest cheerleader Kim Sears, at what has been the most hotly-anticipated wedding of the decade.
Thousands of people will flood Andy Murray’s Scottish home town of Dunblane as sports fans across the globe watch the famously-awkward World No3 - worth an estimated &pound;32million - finally meet his love match at the altar.
 

The ceremony at the Stirlingshire town’s Cathedral will be followed by fine dining and dancing as the couple and their guests head to Andy’s &pound;1.8million Cromlix Hotel.
Despite befriending a string of big-name celebrities in recent years, the Murrays have hinted that the day will be an intimate and “traditional” affair - with a modest guest list including former world No1 Tim Henman and some of Andy’s Davis Cup team mates.
The lovebirds, both 27, met when they were just 17 years old at the 2005 French Open where Kim had travelled with her tennis coach dad, Nigel.
Their relationship remained under the radar for a year until Murray pushed his way through the crowds to kiss his girlfriend on camera during the SAP Open in San Jose.

Artist Kim has been Andy’s biggest champion throughout the highest and lowest points of his career - famously being caught cursing opponent Tomas Berdych from the Australian Open courtside in January.
Despite a six month split in 2009 when Kim returned to live with her parents, the couple rekindled their relationship and she accepted Andy’s proposal in November last year after several years of speculation over when they might tie the knot.
High profile Scottish weddings have included Madonna and Guy Ritchie’s exclusive Highland bash at Dornock Castle in 2000 and Zara Philips’s Edinburgh marriage to Miek Tindall in 2011. But rarely has Scotland welcomed a union as warmly as Andy and Kim’s.
 

The people of Dunblane have spent weeks preparing for the local lad-turned-superstar’s big day - rolling out the bunting and preparing for a Scottish knees up in honour of the two-time Grand Slam winner.
Cleaners spent days preparing the cathedral, making sure the interior is spick and span for the A-list nuptials while local businesses prepare for all eyes to be on their town.
Butchers David Bennett &amp; Son whipped up a bespoke menu of sausages and burgers, including ‘Wimbledon Bangers’ and ‘Sweetheart Burgers’, and messages of support fill shop windows around the town.
 

The Riverside pub has brewed a special beer called TogetherNess for the big day, while the Dunblane Hotel is set to serve strawberries and cream and prosecco in Andy and Kim’s honour.
Local schoolchildren have been busy making congratulatory cards which are to be delivered to the couple and a group of Murray fans on facebook have raised &pound;4000 for charity as a wedding present.
The Murraynators raised the cash through an online appeal for the Elena Baltacha Foundation, set up by the late Scots tennis star and close pal of Andy, who died of liver cancer last year aged 30.

Andy will become the first Freeman of Stirling to be married after receiving the accolade last summer.
Provost Mike Robbins said: “I would like to wish them well on behalf of the people of Stirling on their wedding day.
“This is the first time anyone can recall the wedding of a Freeman of the City, so this makes the occasion even more special.
“As they start their married life together we wish them every happiness.”
Parking in parts of The Cross, Keir Street and The Haining will be being suspended from noon until 6pm and the footpath which runs alongside the Allan Water, to the side of the Cathedral, is also to close.

The Stirling Council car park at The Haining will be closed from 8am, and no access to the Cathedral grounds will be permitted on the day. Police and stewards will be patrolling the area.
Both Stirling Council and Police Scotland said they could not comment on the arrangements for the wedding, describing it as a private event.
Rain showers were forecast for the region last night, but bunting and wedding bows have been placed around the town’s High Street to make sure spirits aren’t dampened on the big day.
It’s often tradition for the bride to stay at her family home the night before the wedding, though as Kim’s parents live in the south east of England, she may choose to get ready at Cromlix or another luxury hotel if her groom is staying there.

The 2013 Wimbledon winner may choose to make his way to the cathedral from mum Judy’s &pound;750,000 mansion, Khyber House, which she bought just three miles away in Bridge of Allan in 2012.
Kim was expected to have four bridesmaids in tow today, while Andy was struggling to single out one best man and is thought to have asked brother Jamie, and friends Ross Hutchins and Carlos Mier to fulfil the role.
Andy’s parents Judy and William and brother Jamie will take the front pews for the nuptials alongside Kim’s parents Nigel and Leonore and brother Scott.
Murray, who is close to both Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic, admitted that neither of the leading tennis stars nor his celebrity friends, including big-name pals Sir Sean Connery and Sir Alex Ferguson, would be attending the ceremony. Though he confirmed former British number one Tim Henman was firmly on the guestlist, along with tennis stars James Ward and Jamie Delgado.
He previously said: “The list will be everyone who we’re close to, people we’ve spent a lot of time with in the past but also people we see ourselves spending time with in the future.”
Kim’s dress has been kept firmly under wraps but several top designers have had a go at picking what the petite painter might go for today.
Some have guessed she will be wearing A-lister favourite Jenny Packham, or the Duchess of Cambridge’s own wedding dress designer, Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen.
Kate Halfpenny predicted that Kim will be wearing “a slimline slinky silhouette with a low back, small cap sleeves and a long train”, whereas Joyce Young sketched a wedding dress that features a high neckline and a low back.
Holly Cuthbert, one half of luxury bridal house Maria Senvo, said she had envisioned Kim in a structured top with a loose bohemian skirt.
Kim has already hinted that she will wear a crystal-encrusted garter sent to her by Point Nouveau Bridal shop in Dunblane in a thank you letter she sent to owner Lesley Anderson.
Andy’s mum Judy, 55, has had her dress finalised since last month, describing it as “top secret”, but she’s also a known fan of designers Alexander McQueen and Jenny Packham.
Judy said earlier this year her son has a “traditional” style, so we can expect typical Scottish themes from today’s celebrations.
In January, she said: “I’m thrilled to bits about the engagement. He was very traditional and called Kim’s parents beforehand. He is very traditional like that.”
The wedding bands will have to be pretty special to match up to the &pound;250,000 platinum sparkler Andy popped the question with five months ago.
Picking the design himself, Andy opted for a 3.5 carat diamond, which almost overshadowed Kim’s expletive-riddled outburst at the Australian Open in Melbourne.
Well-wishers are expecting to be greeted briefly by the couple following the ceremony before they make their way to the five star Cromlix three miles away for the reception.
It is thought the occasion will be modelled on the wedding of Andy’s brother Jamie to Colombian beauty Alejandra Gutierrez two years ago at the same venue, when Andy was the best man.
A huge marquee holding up to 300 guests has been erected on the front lawn of Cromlix for several days and staff have been snapped making finishing touches to the interior.
In a recent US interview with Rolling Stone, Andy revealed he had entrusted his future wife with most of the planning for their big day - with the exception of food and the cake - and had left flowers, colour schemes and other finer details up to Kim.
Guests will be treated to a luxurious menu which could include Cromlix favourites, like starters of Tian of Dingwall black pudding, organic poached Scottish Salmon and Pear Dartois with hot chocolate sauce for desert.
Though Judy has vowed not to show of her Strictly Come Dancing moves at the wedding, Andy has previously revealed his musical tastes and may opt for songs by his favourite artists, American rock singer John Mellencamp, Pharrell Williams and Ed Sheeran.
The couple will have their pick of the most impressive suites in the building - The Burns, Bruce, Eden or Bowes-Lyon suites - all with their own sitting rooms, but are likely to make use of the exclusive Eden, complete with his and her showers and 400-thread Egyptian cotton bed linen.
Cromlix is a pet friendly hotel, which means beloved dogs Maggie May and Rusty could even get to play a part in their big day.
The border terriers, often spotted out on walks near the couple’s &pound;5 million home in Oxshott, Surrey, are celebrities in their own right after racking up almost 30,000 followers.
Though many couples choose to jet off to sunny climes straight after their big day, Andy and Kim look set to wait several months for their honeymoon after Andy previously spoke about his commitment to the ATP World Tour until mid-November.
He said: “The honeymoon won’t be until the end of the year.”
Mike Cantlay, chairman of Visit Scotland, said the couple had chosen the perfect location fortheir wedding, in the sixth most popular region in the country for marriages, and would be a holiday in its own right for their guests.
He said: “Put simply, Scotland is one of the most beautiful places in the world in which to get married. From the splendour and magnificence of our castles and historic homes, to the wild romantic nature of our lochs, mountains, islands and coastlines, there is a uniqueness and magic to having your big day on Scottish soil. “The impact the wedding industry has on tourism itself is significant, but more than that, it gives us an opportunity to showcase Scotland to guests who may never have made the trip before and turn their time here into a holiday.
“We wish Andy and Kim all the very best for their special day in Dunblane, set in the breathtaking scenery of Stirlingshire, and we are confident the happy couple and their guests will have a truly fabulous time while in Scotland.”
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

