THE SNP has almost doubled its lead over Labour in the General Election race in Scotland, according to the latest poll.
The TNS survey of 978 adults in Scotland found that of those who say they are certain to vote on May 7, 52 per cent will back the SNP compared to 24 per cent for Labour.
The 28-point lead is nearly double last month's figure, when the parties scored 46 per cent and 30 per cent respectively.
The Conservatives are on 13 per cent (down one per cent), the Liberal Democrats six per cent (up three points) while the Greens are on 3 per cent (down one point).
Support for UKIP in Scotland is &quot;almost negligible&quot;, TNS said.
The survey covered the period of the UK-wide TV debates, although it closed before the impact of the Scottish leaders' TV debates last week could be taken into account.
Tom Costley, head of TNS Scotland, said: &quot;The official election campaign has got off to a great start for the SNP, undoubtedly helped by Nicola Sturgeon's strong performance in the UK-wide TV debate.
&quot;Not only has Labour's hopes of a recovery in support been dashed but, even worse, it appears to have gone backwards.
 
 Find My Seat is now closed.

&quot;The SNP seems to be building on the momentum which they carried forward from the independence referendum, while Jim Murphy is still struggling to win back Labour's lost supporters.
&quot;Indeed, the latest poll shows some evidence that the growth in SNP support is mainly coming from disaffected Labour supporters.
&quot;But it's important to remember that the campaign is really only beginning and 29 per cent of those who say they are certain to vote have not made up their minds who to vote for.
&quot;It will be interesting to see what difference the campaigns of the various parties make to people's intentions by polling day.&quot;
A Scottish Labour spokesman added: &quot;If this poll is repeated on election day, it will be good news for the SNP but great news for the Tories.
&quot;A vote for anyone other than Labour makes it more likely the Tories will be the largest party across the UK and that David Cameron will return to Downing Street by accident.
&quot;The only way to get a Labour government that will invest in our NHS, get young people back into work and call time on exploitative zero-hours contracts is to vote for Labour.&quot;
Support for the SNP continues to be very strong among younger voters who are certain to vote and express a preference – 71 per cent of 18 to 34-year-olds, against 57 per cent for 35 to 54-year-olds and 40 per cent for those aged 55 and over.
Among the oldest age group, Labour scores 32 per cent and the Conservatives 20 per cent.
However, fewer of the younger voters say they are certain to vote - 52 per cent of 18 to 34-year-olds against 67 per cent overall.
 

In the event of a hung parliament, 44 per cent of Scottish voters would prefer a Labour-led government compared with 15 per cent who back a Tory-led administration.
The most popular single option is a Labour-SNP coalition, with 25 per cent support.
Both parties have ruled this out, but the response suggests that some form of SNP-Labour co-operation has significant backing, TNS said.
The next most popular option is 9 per cent for the continuation of a Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition.
Nearly a third (31 per cent) of Labour voters would prefer the option of co-operating with the SNP, while 28 per cent opted for a Labour minority government.
If the SNP holds a majority of Scotland's 59 seats in a hung parliament, voters are evenly divided between those who want the SNP to work with Labour (34 per cent) and those who want the SNP to remain a separate bloc in the Westminster Parliament (32 per cent).
SNP voters are also evenly divided - 42 per cent want to work with Labour while 45 per cent would want the party to remain separate.
TNS surveyed 978 adults aged over 18 across Scotland between March 18 and April 8.


