STRICKEN Scots heroes have been missing out on millions of pounds worth of unclaimed war pensions, a support group claim.
Former service personnel with mental health conditions such as post traumatic stress disorder have failed to claim a jackpot of cash they are entitled to, according to Legion Scotland.
One in seven of Scotland’s veterans, around 50,000 people, have reported suffering a long-term illness they attribute to their military service but only a fraction of them have claimed their disablement war pension.
Navy hero Derek O’Rourke was left mentally scarred after having to haul shark-ravaged corpses from the waters of the West Indies after a ferry disaster.
More than 200 people died when the ferry, Christena, sank off St Kitts in August 1970.
Father-of-two Derek, who missed out on a war pension, said: “There will be thousands of people like me who will not realise what they are entitled to.
“I suffered nightmares and flashbacks for year after I was involved in dealing with the ferry disaster.
“The ferry was going between islands when it hit a rain squall and overturned. My ship HMS Sirius was on patrol and we had to fight sharks to get the bodies out of the water. It was horrendous.

“During my years in service, I was never in a war zone so I thought I wasn’t entitled but it turned out I should have been getting it for years.”
Painter Derek, 62, from Dunfermline, who suffers from a degenerative eye condition, said that after his PTSD got worse, he got help from Legion Scotland to apply for a disablement war pension.
He added: “With the extra pension money I get, I can buy supplies I need for painting and keep a little warmer. It makes a big difference to have more money coming in every week.
“Everyone should get what they are entitled to. There will be thousands of others like me.”
 The standard minimum payment for disablement war pension varies depending on rank. For officers,  the weekly payment is &pound;35.22. 
Legion Scotland helped Derek through his pensions appeal after he was offered the standard minimum. With the charity’s help, Derek got double the amount.
Legion Scotland’s Neil Robinson said: “Many ex-servicemen and women who come to us for help don’t know they can appeal if their condition has got worse or if it’s not a physical injury caused at the frontline. If there’s any illness or condition as a result of service-related issue, we can help.
“Get in touch with Legion Scotland and talk it through with one of our advisers. You could be entitled to a pension that could make all the difference. And it’s a free service.”

