A MAJOR search has been launched for a nurse who vanished after a night out at a Glasgow club.
Karen Buckley, 24, has not been seen since she left Sanctuary on Dumbarton Road in the early hours of Sunday.
CCTV last captured Karen, from the west end of the city, leaving the club shortly after 1am. She was then seen on CCTV talking to a man and then walking westwards along Dumbarton Road away from the city centre towards Church Street.
Worried friends of the nurse, who is originally from Cork in Ireland and is studying a masters degree at Glasgow Caledonian University, said it is “very unlike” her not to have been in touch with anyone.
Her parents have flown over from Ireland as they also believe her behaviour is unusual.
Police are keen to speak to the man seen speaking to Karen, and appealed for any other information.
Inspector Gavin Smith said, &quot;Friends reported Karen missing on Sunday 12 April after feeling her behaviour to not return home was very out of character. Her friends say she would always contact them by text or phone to let them know where she was and she doesn't appear to have contacted anyone.
&quot;We are interested in speaking to anyone who may have seen Karen in the early hours of Sunday morning in the west end of Glasgow in order to help with our inquiries to locate her. We're particularly keen to get in touch with the gentleman who Karen was seen talking to around 1am on Sunday morning outside the Sanctuary nightclub as he may be able to help us.
&quot;Karen had been drinking alcohol with her friends but they say she was not drunk and are very worried about her. Her parents have also flown over from Ireland as they believe this behaviour is very unusual and not like Karen at all.
&quot;I would urge anyone who may have seen Karen at all on Saturday night into Sunday morning to get in touch with police on 101 with any information at all.&quot;
Miss Buckley is described as white, around 5ft to 5ft 2in with dark hair and brown eyes and had long black curly hair extensions in.
When last seen she was wearing an all in one black jump suit with red high heels and a black handbag. She speaks in an Irish accent.
She lives with three other student friends in a flat in Hill Street, Garnethill, Glasgow, and earlier on Saturday evening had drinks with friends in the flat before going to the nightclub.

