VULNERABLE single-female households may be being targeted by criminals using cryptic codes.
Shocking “open book” symbols could be being used to alert burglars and other potential intruders that a woman lives alone in the property.
 

The chilling coded symbols have been posted on twitter identified after Police Scotland identified “X” symbols being daubed on garden sheds.
It is understood crooks may be using a series of sophisticated codes to offer a whole gambit of information on households such as whether there is an alarm system, whether it is a wealthy household and even to indicate that it has been burgled in the past.
A break-down of the codes was tweeted on a police twitter feed, though not by police themselves.
Criminals may also be leaving cryptic messages which seem to indicate that a house or a flat has been assessed for a potential break-in in the past.
 

Some of the messages offer advice that a property may be “too risky” for a break-in.
Police Scotland has identified that codes have appeared in East Kilbride , South Lanarkshire.
A “good target” is marked with a simple “X”.
The symbol of an open book is thought to indicate a vulnerable occupant such as a single female and could act as a green light for the property to be targeted.
The sign for a wealthy households is a circle of small circles indicating coins, it is claimed
It is understood police have acted on the codes by warning potential targets to be on their guard.
Other codes may warn criminals that a property has nothing worth stealing.
Police Scotland has identified some codes after rolling out Operation RAC, which is a response to break-ins at homes and businesses.
RAC stands for Recovery and Capture.

A Police Scotland spokesman said that police do not accept the interpretation of the codes, or that the sophisticated language is being used, but added:”It has been the case that sheds in the East Kilbride area have been marked with an ‘X’ symbol.”
 
He urged the general public to be on their guard and said anyone with any suspicions should call 101.
Police have arrested three men in the East Kilbride area in connection with alleged offences within the last two weeks.
Try our quick news quiz below:

