
FORMER prime minister Gordon Brown has issued a plea over attacks on schools one year on from the abduction of 276 girls in Nigeria.
As the world marks the anniversary, a global education campaign has demanded urgent action to end violence towards schoolchildren.
A World at School is also calling for the immediate release of the 219 girls still being held by Boko Haram.
In the last year, terror attacks on schools around the world have risen to higher levels than at any point in 40 years.
In April, the world was outraged by the mass abduction in Chibok.
Four months later at least 187 government schools were damaged during the Gaza conflict, severely, completely or partially.
In December, 130 students and 10 teachers were killed in a Taliban attack on a school in Peshawar, Pakistan.
And just one month ago 89 boys were abducted as they sat an exam in their South Sudan school. They were allegedly forced to become child soldiers, joining an estimated 12,000 others.
United Nations Special Envoy for Global Education, Gordon Brown said: “It is horrific that the girls have spent an entire year captive away from their families, just because they wanted an education and to learn.   
&quot;This has been a devastating year for schoolchildren. Not since World War II have so many girls and boys become refugees across so many borders. Never outside the context of world wars have schools in so many countries been subject to so many terror attacks – 10,000 in only five years.”   
 

Ms. Leila Zerrougui, Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, said the abduction of children, including from their school, is becoming a tactic of war that requires a robust response.
“The time has come for abductions to trigger all the tools developed by the United Nations Security Council,” she said.
&quot;We have seen similar situations with other violations that have resulted in sanctions, urgent mediation and full diplomatic actions. We need to see this happen with the abductions of school girls and boys.&quot;
 A World at School is today calling on people to add their voices to the #UpForSchool Petition demanding world leaders and the UN Security Council take urgent action to protect children from attacks and abductions in their school.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

