 TO watch Ronnie Browne sing Flower of Scotland in front of a home crowd at Hampden or Murrayfield is to see a natural performer. 
Or so you would think. With his silvery hair and splendid kilt, he leads the crowd as if giving it laldy in front of tens of thousands is what he was born to do.
His new autobiography, That Guy Fae The Corries, tells a different story.
The first time he took the stage was in the 40s, at Nicholson Street Church in Edinburgh. As a member of the Newington Scout troop, the eight-year-old got up to sing Josef Locke song Hear My Song, Violetta.
Young Ronnie wore a pink and purple stripey T-shirt, silk pantaloons with a sash at the waist, a black beret and a false moustache.
He mimed on a mandolin while a pianist bashed away off-stage. All the while, Ronnie was perched on a go-kart with a silhouette of a gondola nailed to the back.
It gets better. He was serenading a fellow Scout, Skinny, who was clinging to a makeshift balcony, resplendent in a blonde wing, full make-up and his mum’s evening dress, with two oranges stuffed down the front.
After a start like that, it’s hardly surprising that Browne did not rush to pursue a musical career.
Instead, he went to Edinburgh College of Art, painted portraits and became an art teacher. But he wasn’t earning much and it was the need for extra cash that propelled him towards performing.
It was the beginning of the 60s. Ronnie was married to childhood sweetheart Pat and living in the capital’s Shandon with their baby son. And they were skint.
 

Then an art school chum, Roy Williamson, had a musical emergency. Roy had abandoned his student skiffle band and joined a folk trio. He and Ronnie had played and sung together at parties in each other’s homes, so when Roy’s regular singer came down with glandular fever just before a three-week stint during the Edinburgh Festival, Ronnie was drafted in as a substitute.
The gig was at The Tryst, a coffee house on the Royal Mile. At the first rehearsal, Ronnie recalls being “crippled with nerves”. But the thought of earning &pound;1 (plus a taxi home) powered him through.
The day before the show, they came up with the name The Corrie Folk Trio and Paddie Bell. (Paddie was the female singer).
On the night, eight brave souls came in for a cup of coffee and found themselves faced by The Corrie Folk Trio and Paddie Bell.
The next night, they came back with their friends. By the end of the week, the house, which held 80, was full. By the end of their three-week stint, queues ran round the block.
 The festival ended but they kept playing. By 1963, when they made a cabaret appearance at Gleneagles, they were taking home &pound;3 each. 
“It’s said that musicians play for love of the music,” Ronnie writes in his ebook. “Nonsense. This musician was playing for the cash.”
 

The Corries gave up their day jobs. They were regulars on various TV shows and it was on one of these, Songs of the Jacobite Risings in 1968, that the world first heard Roy’s new composition Flower of Scotland. It became a highlight of the Corries’ live set and by 1974, the song had seeped beyond the live folk scene.
Ronnie writes: “More and more, we would catch glimpses of it in television dramas, usually some drunken Scotsmen leaving a bar and singing, ‘Oh Flower of Scotland, Na Nya Na Nyaaaaa.’”
Within the rugby community, it had become an unofficial anthem.
It was released as a single in 1975 and sold 8000 copies in the first week.
The real turning point for the song came 15 years later, just before Roy died.
In the run-up to the 1990 Rugby Five Nations Championship, Ronnie was summoned to the Scottish Rugby Union. He was told that, during the last two seasons, the team had sung Flower of Scotland under their breath during the national anthem. They wanted it to become the official replacement for God Save The Queen. Did they have the band’s permission?
“I said that no permission was required,” Ronnie writes. “Both Roy and I would be over the moon.”
Its national anthem debut was at the first game of the championship. Roy, with a brain tumour and fading fast, watched it on TV with “a broad smile on his face”.
Ronnie has performed the song all over the world and has been its official guardian since Roy’s death, aged 54, in August 1990.
He writes: “Flower of Scotland is constantly criticised as being anti-English. But what could be more anti-Scottish than God Save The Queen which we, as the Scottish nation, have been forced to sing over the years?”
 “It has now become accepted, the world over, as Scotland’s national anthem.” 
 

After Roy died, Ronnie continued with a solo career, performing Flower of Scotland and other Corries favourites around the globe.
No international sporting fixture was complete without the sight of him, beard gleaming, kilt swishing, singing at the start of the match.
 Having sung it at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow last summer, Ronnie has now retired. 
That was, he writes, “a request he could not refuse”.
The 77-year-old writes: “I realised that, after nearly breaking down, I should not try to sing again”.
With a legacy like his, he doesn’t need to.
 That Guy Fae The Corries, published by Sandstone Press, &pound;20, is out on May 21. 

