A SCOTS soldier who stamped on a man’s head 18 times walked free yesterday – and could keep his job.
Drink-fuelled Scots Guard Shaun Smith, 25, was caught on CCTV mercilessly bringing his boot down repeatedly on helpless James Wormald.
His Welsh Guard pal Jason Collins, 22 – who has stood guard at Buckingham and St James’s palaces – pummelled the victim with his fists.
The pair had already knocked James’s friend Mark Thompson out cold.
One long-serving detective described the CCTV footage of the attack in the garrison town of Catterick, Yorkshire, as the most violent he had ever witnessed.
The imprint of Smith’s boot was clearly visible on James’s face after the attack.
But a judge at Teesside Crown Court yesterday freed the thugs – and it was revealed that both could stay in the Army.
Judge Jamie Hill QC – who was told that the Army wanted to keep both men – admitted that his decision was “entirely exceptional”.
Collins, who was given community service, is set to keep his job while the fate of Smith, who was given a suspended sentence, will be decided by his commanding officer.

More courts news
Last night, James, who said the savage attack was unprovoked and out of the blue, said he had been robbed of justice.
He said he had been sickened to see the video and added: “I don’t know how I escaped that without really serious injuries.
“The force they used could have killed me and I really expected them to go to jail for it.
“But to hear that they will not go to prison and will probably keep their jobs is sickening – it’s just crazy.”
 

  Record View: Thug soldiers shame the Army 
The soldiers had matched each other drink for drink before the early-hours assault last April, downing six Budweisers, 14 sweet and sour shots and a Jagerbomb.
They admitted actual bodily harm.
Detective Constable Andy Palmer said the footage was the most violent piece of CCTV he had seen in 10 years as a police officer. He added: “It is extremely fortunate that the victims were not more seriously injured.”
Judge Hill described Smith’s part in the attack as “deeply unpleasant and inexcusable” but imposed a 12-month jail term suspended for 12 months, 80 hours’ unpaid work and compensation of &pound;1000 to be paid to James. Collins was given a 12-month community order and ordered to pay &pound;500 each to the two victims.
Captain James Dyson of the Scots Guards said a suspended sentence would not mean an automatic discharge from the Army, but it would be for a commanding officer to decide whether there were “exceptional circumstances” which would allow Smith to stay in service.
Judge Hill said: “I can’t say what the Army will do but I simply express the hope that the Army feels able to keep you.”
Smith, who is based at Wellington Barracks near Buckingham Palace, left court separately from Collins, who is based at Pirbright Barracks in Surrey.
Neither made any comment.
Richard Herrman, for Smith, said: “But for that night, this man is an angel. But on that night he was a devil. This is something that will bear on his mind for the rest of his life.”
Captain Dyson called Smith “one of the best-performing people in his platoon”.
He said Smith had overcome a difficult early life and had lost a lot of weight in his battle to get fit enough to join the Army.
Sean Grainger, for Collins, told the court: “He has been entrusted to stand guard at Buckingham Palace and St James’s Palace while these proceedings have been going on.
“That shows the high level of regard he is held in by the Welsh Guards.”

