HUNDREDS of people have attended a ceremony in Edinburgh to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Gallipoli campaign during the First World War.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael were among those who took part in the special service in memory of the Anzac (Australian and New Zealand Army Corps) forces who stormed Turkish beaches in 1915.
Key representatives from all the countries affected by the campaign laid wreaths during the ceremony, which was held within the Scottish National War Memorial in Edinburgh.
The land campaign launched by Allied forces 100 years ago today on Turkey's Gallipoli peninsula was designed to be a decisive blow aimed at knocking the Turks out of the war.

But eight horror-filled months later, and at a cost to both sides of an estimated 145,000 lives, the Allies pulled out, having failed in their objective.
Ms Sturgeon said: &quot;We must never forget those who fought and made the ultimate sacrifice in the Gallipoli campaign.
&quot;Today's service of remembrance reminded us of the terrible impact the campaign had on all the nations involved.
&quot;It is made more poignant by the fact that the nations on both sides now stand together to commemorate the fallen.&quot;
The service in Edinburgh was part of Legion Scotland's annual Anzac Day Service to honour the members who fought at Gallipoli.
Members of the public and veterans paid their respects by laying their own wreaths on the Esplanade at the replica Stone of Remembrance.
 

Kevin Gray MM, chief executive officer of Legion Scotland, said: &quot;The Gallipoli campaign had a huge impact on Scotland, its centenary today was about paying tribute and ensuring we remember.
&quot;Legion Scotland thank all those that joined them today for the commemoration.
&quot;No matter where we come from it is important to come together and spend a little time to show our gratitude and respect for the sacrifices made by so many during this campaign and the many others that took place during WWI.&quot;
More than half a million Commonwealth and Irish soldiers fought during the eight-month long Gallipoli campaign including 400,000 from Britain, 15,000 from Ireland and 140,000 drawn from the modern nations of Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Sri Lanka and the Indian sub-continent.
The date the campaign began - April 25 - is commemorated every year as Anzac Day which has become a day when Aussies and Kiwis remember all their forces who have served and died.

