David Cameron yesterday admitted he is banking on the SNP surge in Scotland to help him win a majority across the UK.
The Tory Prime Minister told supporters in Glasgow that Labour’s predicted wipeout by Nicola Sturgeon’s Nationalists would help him keep the keys to Downing Street for another five years.
Polls show the SNP could win as many as 35 Westminster seats previously held by Labour – making it virtually impossible for Ed Miliband to secure an overall victory against the Tories.
And launching the party’s Scottish manifesto with Ruth Davidson at the Emirates Arena, Cameron gloated over the prospect of Scots keeping him in power.
He said the political sea-change north of the Border since the 2010 election was one of the “facts” that meant the Tories could win a majority next month.
He said: “We are only 23 seats short of an overall majority and I believe that overall majority is achievable.
“What are the new facts of this election campaign? There are two new facts. Fact No1: The Labour Party here in Scotland are facing wipeout at the hands of the SNP.
“Fact No2: The Liberal Democrats are facing wipeout potentially in many parts of the country.
“What that means is Ed Miliband can only get into Downing Street on the back of support from the SNP, who will exact a terrible price in terms of even more borrowing, even more spending, even more unlimited welfare and even weaker defences.
“That is the terrible prospect this country faces.” He argued Tories are “the only ones that can form an overall majority, an overall majority to continue the plan that is working for Britain”.
But despite his jubilance at the SNP surge, Cameron insisted the Tories were the party who would keep the UK together.
He said: “Conservatives are not just about balancing the books.
“We are head, heart and soul passionate about helping people get on in life, passionate about our United Kingdom, and I am proud to stand alongside her (Davidson) and proud of how she is leading the Scottish Conservatives today.
“This is what the Conservatives are showing in Scotland. We are the party of real devolution, the party of a strong Union and the party with a proper plan.”
Cameron insisted that the SNP and Labour are similar. He said: “You have a weak Labour Party, who want more spending, more borrowing, more debt and more taxes.

“And the people who will prop them up, the SNP, want even more spending, even more borrowing, even more debt and even more taxes.
“Together, they pose a clear threat to the future of our United Kingdom. A coalition of chaos.
“The SNP acting as the chain to Labour’s wrecking ball, running right through our economic recovery.”
Labour’s Shadow Scottish Secretary Margaret Curran seized on Cameron’s comments about benefiting from the SNP surge.
She said: “He let the cat out the bag – the Tories need Scotland to vote SNP to stay in power.
“Normally when the Tories travel to Scotland, it’s to send a direct message. Today David Cameron told every Scot he desperately wants them to vote SNP to impose a decade of Tory austerity on working-class families.
“Another Tory government would be a disaster for Scotland but that’s exactly what could happen if Scotland votes for the SNP.
“Only Labour are big enough and strong enough across the UK to kick out Cameron. This Tory PM is banking on more SNP MPs to hold on to power.”
But SNP deputy leader Stewart Hosie said voting for his party would help Scots “lock out” the Tories from power.
He said: “The SNP have made clear that we will never put the Tories into power.
“The question for Ed Miliband is why has he refused to match that commitment?”
Cameron was joined at the launch by Scottish Conservatives leader Davidson, who said the party is “on the up” and on the side of the “quiet majority” of Scots.
She announced plans to reintroduce the right to buy for social housing tenants in Scotland after the system was scrapped by the SNP at Holyrood.
And Davidson pledged to create an extra 10,000 apprenticeships by the end of the decade.
She also said the party would bring back prescription charges for the wealthy, legislate for more powers for the Scottish Parliament and give English MPs a veto on policies that only apply south of the Border.
 

Scottish Labour are the party of the working class. That’s as true today as it ever was.
Written into the DNA of our party, and a message that is on the front page of the manifesto we will publish today, is that Scotland only succeeds when working people succeed. I take an old-fashioned view on work. If someone gets up in the morning, gets the kids dressed and off to school then goes to work, they deserve a decent day’s pay.
But in Scotland today, too many working families are just a failed MOT away from real financial trouble. And some parents who work every hour they can have to rely on food banks to feed their kids.
I want people from working-class backgrounds like my own to get on in life. I don’t want them having to rely on lucky breaks to get a fair shot at life.

A Labour government will start by making work pay. We will increase the minimum wage to at least &pound;8 an hour and work toward a living wage.
Labour will abolish zero-hours contracts and get rid of the bedroom tax. But unless there is a Labour government, we will be powerless to deliver on this radical agenda.
Scottish Labour tried to force through a living wage, a cap on unfair rent rises and a ban on zero-hours contracts. But the Tories and the SNP worked together to block this.
So we need a Labour government that will be in a position to force through the kind of bold change working class Scots need.The kind of bold change we have delivered in the past – like the minimum wage and the Scottish Parliament.
The fewer MPs Labour have in Scotland, the more likely the Tories will be the largest party across the UK.
Only a vote for a Labour government can stop that from happening.
Try our quick news quiz below:

