A SCOTS golfer has defied odds of over 183 trillion-to-one to rack up six hole-in-ones in a year on five different golf courses.
Drew Lumsden had played golf for decades without ever managing the feat, but has now sunk six tee shots in the past 12 months.
The 58-year-old's amazing feat has left him with an expensive series of bar bills but has also earned him a number of watches as prizes.
Drew, from home of golf St Andrews, has completed his spectacular run of hole-in-ones on six different holes across two continents.
He put the run down to being &quot;aggressive&quot; with his tee shots - but joked that it was failing to improve his scores because he was too excited to play afterwards.
Drew is a member of both St Andrews and St Andrews Thistle Golf Clubs and the regular player notched up his first ace on the Eden course in his home town.
But he admitted he never even realised he had aced the par three fifth hole until his playing partner suggested he look in the cup for his ball.
&quot;I hit an eight iron onto the green,&quot; he said. &quot;I was just slightly right of the flag, and to be honest, I didn't even see it going in.
&quot;I thought it might have gone through the green, but my playing partner said I should take a look in the hole and there it was.
&quot;Getting a hole-in-one is a mixture of emotions - a bit like playing the Old Course for the first time. The adrenalin was pumping and I think it took about four holes to settle down afterwards.&quot;
More golf news
 

Drew's first ace was in May last year and he followed it up with a second on the neighbouring Jubilee Course's 192-yard ninth hole in September.
On 4 December he launched a whopping drive 253 yards straight into the hole on the same course's fourth hole and incredibly took his form onto Florida on holiday a fortnight later at the Disney Magnolia course.
Big hitter Drew then notched his most impressive effort yet by booming a 300-yarder into the cup on the Strathtyrum Course in St Andrews on 29 March.
And a few days later he took the clubs to the Cullen Golf Club in Moray and aced the 13th hole.
Drew, who owns a landscape gardening firm, has been awarded three designer watches handed out to players managing the feat in club competitions.
He said: &quot;As a golfer you know what you've got to do, but you can't afford to think about it too much. I would say that you have to be aggressive - you have to go at the flag.&quot;
Statisticians estimated the chances of getting one hole in one for the average amateur golfer lie between 3,500-1 and 12,000-1. Legendary major winner Sam Snead shot 34 aces during his career and made one with every club in his bag except the putter.
15/5/14 - Eden Course, St Andrews, 5th hole, 144 yards, 8-iron.
6/9/14 - Jubilee Course, St Andrews, 9th hole, 192 yards, rescue 4.
4/12/14 - Jubilee Course, St Andrews, 4th hole, 253 yards, driver.
19/12/14 - Disney Magnolia Course, Florida, 6th hole, 159 yards, 5-iron.
29/3/15 - Strathtyrum Course, St Andrews, 15th hole, 300 yards, driver.
4/4/15 - Cullen Golf Club, Moray, 13th hole, 152 yards, 6-iron.
 Try today's sports quiz: 

