 THE romantic Highland hideaway of famous fashion designer Coco Chanel and the Earl of Grosvenor is up for sale with a &pound;3million price tag. 
 Rundown Rosehall Estate in Sutherland boasts a 22-room main house along with five smaller homes dotted across 700 acres of land. 
 Built in 1820, its most colourful period was around a century later, after it was bought by the Duke of Westminster, mega-rich Hugh “Bendor” Grosvenor. 
 

The duke, a close friend of Winston Churchill, spent his summers in his far north retreat with Coco, his lover between 1923 and 1929.
Coco loved fishing on the estate’s river and loch, catching more than 50 salmon, according to Churchill, a regular guest.
She redesigned Rosehall in her celebrated chic style, making the property unique in the UK.
 

Despite leaving the home 85 years ago, several rooms still carry her work, including fragments of wallpaper.
The French fashionista painstakingly decorated each room based on the look of her Parisian apartment.
It remains the only known house in Scotland with an interior by Chanel.
 Churchill, then chancellor of the exchequer in prime minister Stanley Baldwin’s Conservative government, stayed at Rosehall in 1928 as he recuperated after an illness. 
 

 In a letter to his wife Clementine, the future PM described both Coco and the main house on the estate as “very agreeable”. He wrote: “The air is most exhilarating, keen and yet caressing. Coco is here in place of Violet (the duke’s former wife). 
 “She fishes from morn till night, and in two months has killed 50 salmon. She is very agreeable – really great and strong being fit to rule a man or an Empire. 
 “Bennie (Grosvenor) very well and, I think, extremely happy to be mated with an equal – her ability balancing his power. We are the only three on the river, and have all the plums.” 
Grosvenor, the second Duke of Westminster, died in 1953 and was one of the wealthiest men in the world.
He was known to his family as “Bendor”, which was also the name of a racehorse, Bend Or, owned by his grandfather, the first duke.
 

The years and the harsh weather haven’t been kind to his former estate at Invershin, near Lairg, and it has hardly been lived in since his death.
It now requires millions to be spent on a full restoration and, when ready, it could be returned to a family home or converted into a hotel.
 There is a loch on the estate with a boat house. It has been put on the market by Re-max for &pound;3million – making it one of the most expensive properties for sale in Scotland. 

