 THE gran of a young Scots soldier killed on holiday in Miami read a poignant poem in his honour at his funeral today. 
Shaun Cole’s granny Christine remembered the 22-year-old as a “wonderful, loving and cheeky chappie who made the family so very happy”.
 She added: “Delighted our gorgeous boy is home... so sad that he was on his own.” 
Shaun’s mum Michelle and sister Jade also spoke at the service.
 More than 650 mourners gathered at Colinton Parish Church in Shaun’s home city of Edinburgh to see him laid to rest with full military honours. 
Comrades from the Royal Scots Borderers carried his coffin.
Shaun, who served in Afghanistan and helped Ebola victims in Sierra Leone, was found dead in the street last month while on holiday with his mates at the Miami Ultra music festival.
It’s feared he was the victim of a hit and run. Police are still investigating.
Shaun’s coffin had a guard of honour and a gun salute as his mates carried him from the church for a private burial.
The Reverend Gayle Turner, who led the service, said afterwards that it was fitting that it took place at the church where Shaun and his comrades attended services before and after their deployment to Afghanistan.
She added that his loved ones “did him proud” with their eulogies.
“They were worried they would break down,” she said. “But they were composed and did very well.

 Rev Turner went on: “There were so many people here today. That’s a good testimony to how much he was loved. 
“This was a real positive gathering on a lovely, sunny morning to give thanks for the life Shaun lived in his short number of years.”
Shaun’s company commander Major Nick Colquhoun remembered him with fondness and respect.
He said Shaun was “a highly capable, experienced and professional young soldier” who had served with 1 Scots for just over three years.
 Major Colquhoun added: “He proved himself on demanding combat operations in Afghanistan while working alongside the Afghan national army. 
“And most recently, in Sierra Leone, where he was deployed in support of the international humanitarian effort to combat the Ebola virus.
 “Private Shaun Cole achieved an extraordinary amount in a short military career and was an immensely popular soldier. His loss has left a gaping hole in the ranks of Bravo Company and the whole of the 1st Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Scotland.” 
 Shaun flew to Miami shortly after returning from Sierra Leone. His family are still waiting to find out how he lost his life. 
A Miami Police spokeswoman said yesterday: “The death is still being treated as unclassified.
 “We’re still waiting on the reports coming back from the medical examiner.” 

