 A MOTORIST’S extraordinary bid to get off a drink-driving charge was thrown out of court yesterday. 
 Leonard Shaw claimed a gust of wind made him crash his car on the Friarton Bridge, near Perth . 
He alleged he got out of the vehicle, stubbed his toe, tumbled over the bridge parapet and fell 100ft to the ground below.
 Shaw, 63, said he then found a bottle of whisky in his bodywarmer – the glass was intact despite the incredible fall – and he took several swigs before clambering up a rockface to the bridge. 
The Tarmac expert denied drink-driving on the M90 Inverkeithing to Perth road last April. But he was found guilty, banned from the road for three years and fined &pound;500.
Perth Sheriff Court heard he had a previous conviction for drink-driving.
The court was told passing motorists rang police when they spotted Shaw’s crashed Nissan Qashqai on the bridge, amid fears he was preparing to jump off.
 Officers found no trace of him initially. By the time Shaw reappeared over the parapet – more than two hours after he  was first seen standing by his abandoned car – a full turnout of police, ambulance and firefighters were on the bridge. 
Shaw claimed he had been driving home to Montrose from his mother’s 90th birthday celebrations after drinking four beers earlier in the evening.
He said he had taken a half bottle of Dalwhinnie for his mum but hadn’t got round to handing it over because his siblings disapproved strongly of alcohol and he had fallen out with his brother.
Shaw claimed he was overtaking a lorry when a gust of wind blew his car out of control.
He said he over-corrected after hitting the crash barrier and careered into the central reservation before bringing the car to a halt and getting out.
The court heard Shaw had a gash on his head when he appeared back on the bridge.
Sheriff Simon Collins said: “It’s his position that he doesn’t have a drink problem.”
Shaw’s lawyer Steve Lafferty said: “It’s clearly not a one-off.
“There is a previous conviction which indicates there was a difficulty in the past.”

