SHE’S been scared of heights all her life but that didn’t stop Margaret Clarke from skydiving from 10,000ft to help her sick daughter.
 Margaret, 70, took the plunge so her daughter Lucy can travel to Moscow for a pioneering stem-cell transplant which she hopes will stop the progression of multiple sclerosis. 
 The skydive over St Andrews , Fife, is one of several fundraising initiatives Lucy’s family are undertaking to raise the  &pound;40,000 needed for the treatment. 
If the mum-of-one can secure funding, she will be the first Scot to fly to Russia for the cutting-edge procedure.
Margaret, of Rosehall, Sutherland, said: “Before we took off, I had a lot of butterflies in my tummy. But I just kept thinking about why I was doing it.
“There was a bit of trepidation but I didn’t really think about it much. I knew I was going to do it and that was that.
“It’s strange but once I was in the plane and we took off, I didn’t feel frightened. The whole thing was like an out-of-body experience.
 

“It took us 20 minutes to climb to 10,000ft, then it was time to jump out of the plane.
 “When the parachute opened, I could enjoy the views, but I did start to feel travel sick. We swayed back and forth  and from side to side but the landing felt absolutely brilliant. 
 “It was an amazing experience. For me, it was a means to an end – to help Lucy - and there was never any doubt I was  going to do it.” 
Margaret admitted she had a few sleepless nights before her tandem skydive on April 5.
She said: “I was nervous, but it was something I wanted to do to help Lucy.
“What mother wouldn’t jump out of a plane if they thought it would save their daughter?
 “I don’t think I’m any different from any other mum whose child has suffered terribly with her illness. 
“Multiple sclerosis is a disease that gets progressively worse over time.
“If we don’t act now, I don’t want to think about where we will be in a few years time.”
The gran’s bravery is the reason she has been nominated as a Senior Hero at the  Our Heroes awards on May 15.
The ceremony, at the Thistle Hotel in Glasgow, sponsored by Lidl, will honour those who go above and beyond to help others.
Margaret added: “It’s a real honour to be nominated. Lucy is a wonderful daughter, mother and wife. She deserves a second chance.
“Hopefully, we can raise the funds we need and this treatment will cure her.”
 

Lucy was 29 when she was diagnosed with MS in 2005. But her symptoms began when she was just 15.
Today, she has trouble walking and finds it difficult to carry out routine tasks before becoming exhausted.
If the illness isn’t treated, Lucy, of Inverness, could be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of her life.
She desperately hopes to have a normal life again with husband, Dan, 43, and four-year old son Theo.
Lucy said: “I was always a very active and productive person.
“Now my MS makes it difficult for me to keep up with my son and even do the most basic of household tasks.
“Other people who have had the treatment have told me that it has transformed their lives and I really hope I will be that fortunate. It would be wonderful to be able to play with my son while he is still young and be like other mums and walk him to school and go to the park – things that other families take for granted.”
MS is a disease of the central nervous system that causes a person’s autoimmune system to start attacking cells in their own brain and spinal column.
It is hoped the stem-cell transplant will stop the MS from getting worse and potentially reverse the damage already done.
 The procedure – haematopoietic stem cell transplantation – is not widely available in the UK on the NHS or privately as clinical trials are ongoing. Healthy stem cells will be taken from Lucy’s bone marrow and her diseased immune system  will be wiped out with intensive chemotherapy. 
Her healthy stem cells will then build an undamaged immune system.
There are risks with the treatment but many patients, including two from England, have shown positive results.
Doctors have advised it may take up to two years for Lucy to fully recover from the stem-cell transplant.
Her immune system will be severely compromised for several months.

As part of her month-long stay in Moscow next month, she will spend seven to 14 days in isolation. Only when Lucy’s “new” immune system is strong enough will she be discharged from hospital.
Still at risk of infection, she will have to wear a face mask to protect herself during her return trip to Scotland.
Margaret said: “MS has robbed Lucy of the life she deserved and we are hoping the treatment will work.
“She copes with so much just to get through every day.
“Some mornings she wakes up and doesn’t know whether she’s going to be able to walk.
“It’s a cruel illness and Lucy can suffer a relapse at any time.
“Her mobility has reduced over the last 10 years and everyday tasks are becoming increasingly difficult or impossible to do.
“She refuses to let it beat her and is determined to do all she can to live life to the full.”
 Lucy’s family have launched a website to raise awareness of the campaign and other friends and  relatives are helping to raise money. 
Her nephew Jamie Clarke, 10, intends to swim a mile to raise money to help his auntie.
Lucy said: “So many people are being really supportive. I’m really touched by my mum’s bravery.
“Going to Moscow for this life-changing treatment is the only way to halt further physical deterioration.”
To find out more or make a donation, visit www.lucyslight.uk

