THE MOTHER and sister of a young soldier who died while on the holiday of a lifetime, paid an emotional tribute to him at his funeral.
More than 650 people gathered at Colinton Parish Church in Edinburgh on Thursday morning to pay their respects to tragic Shaun Cole.
Revered Gayle Turner, who conducted the full military service, said it was “very fitting” that Shaun’s funeral was held at the church he visited before and after his deployment to Afghanistan
She also spoke of her admiration for Shaun’s mum Michele Beattie and sister Jade Linden who “did him proud” with their eulogies.
Devastated mum Michele paid tribute to her son following his death. 
In a moving poem from his grandma Christine, the service heard the 22-year-old described as a “wonderful, loving and cheeky chappie who made the family so very happy.”
She also wrote: “Delighted our gorgeous boy is home, so sad that he was on his own.”
 

His coffin, draped with the British Flag, left the church to a guard of honour made up of comrades from the 1st Battalion of The Royal Regiment of Scotland who gave him a gun salute.
 
Speaking after the service, Reverend Turner said: “Shaun would have been to this church a number of times over the years because companies of the army parade down from the barracks whenever they’re deployed somewhere.
“He would also have been here for his homecoming service when he returned from Afghanistan so it was very fitting to have it here today.
“Over the last couple of weeks, obviously his family and the local community have been really saddened and shocked by this tragedy of somebody being killed at such a young age.
“There were so many people here today and that’s a good testimony to how well thought of he was and how much he was loved. There were around 650 people here today.
“But I think this was a real positive gathering of all those people on a lovely, sunny morning to give thank for the life Shaun lived in his short number of years.”
 

She added: “All the different elements came together well and his sister Jade speaking and his mum. They were worried they would breakdown but I think they did it very well today.
“They were quite composed when it came to the day because they’ve been imagining it for a couple of weeks now. But when it came to it, they really did him proud.”
Shaun’s friends and family lined the quiet country road outside the church as the hearse made its way to a private burial.
Major Nick Colquhoun, officer commanding B company of the Royal Scots Borderers, Royal Regiment of Scotland also paid tribute to the Edinburgh-born soldier.
He said described Shaun as a “highly capable, experienced and professional young soldier” who had served just over three years with the first battalion.
Colquhoun said: “He proved himself on demanding combat operations in Afghanistan while working alongside the Afghan national army.
“And most recently, in Sierra Leone where he was deployed in support of the international humanitarian effort to combat the Ebola virus disease.
“Private Shaun Cole achieved an extraordinary amount in a short military career and was an immensely popular soldier. His loss has left a gaping hole in the ranks of bravo company and the whole of the 1st Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Scotland.”

Shaun was killed in an alleged hit and run while on holiday in Florida for the Miami Ultra music festival on March 29.
His body was discovered on the pavement of Biscayne Boulevard at around 7am. Witnesses said they had seen him running down the road before collapsing.
His family continue to face an agonising wait to find out exactly what happened in the early hours of that fateful morning.
A Miami Police spokeswoman said: “The death is still being treated as unclassified. We’re still waiting on the reports coming back from the medical examiner.”

