The number of people using food banks in Scotland has risen by two-thirds, according to new figures from the charity the Trussell Trust.
A total of 117, 689 people - including more than 36,000 children - received a three-day supply of emergency food from the organisation last year.
That was a 65% increase on the figures for the previous year.
Across the UK, the number of people using the trust's food banks exceeded one million for the first time.
In 2011, there was one food bank in Scotland operated in partnership with the Trussell Trust.
The charity said that as of April 2015, it had 50 food banks in 27 Scottish local authorities. 
It has broken the figures on food bank use down by council areas - with 18,000 people in Glasgow using one of its food banks in the financial year from 2014/2015,
In Edinburgh, the figure was about 14,000 people and in Fife more than 10,000 required an emergency food supply.
The charity said the main reasons behind people being referred to its food banks were due to a benefit delay, low income or a benefit change.
Low income showed the biggest numerical rise, with 24,609 people referred for this reason in 2014/15 compared with 13,552 the previous year, an increase of more than 80%.
Ewan Gurr, Scotland network manager at The Trussell Trust, said: &quot;Despite welcome signs of economic recovery, hunger continues to affect significant numbers of men, women and children in Scotland.
&quot;The full extent of the problem could well be much wider as the Trussell Trust figures do not include people who are helped by other food charities or those who feel too ashamed to seek help.&quot;
The charity said as well as providing food it was also offering support services, including debt counselling and welfare advice.
Mr Gurr added: &quot;The latest figures highlight how vital it is that we all work to prevent and relieve hunger in the United Kingdom. It is absolutely crucial that we listen to the challenges of those using food banks to truly understand the nature of the challenges people face. 
&quot;The experiences of those who experience hunger is the key to finding a solution.&quot;
The Trussell Trust, which partners with churches and communities, operates more than 1,200 food distribution centres across the UK.
A scoping study funded by the Scottish government in 2013 to provide insight into the extent of food aid provision in Scotland reported that the Trussell Trust's data is a good indicator of general provision and demand trends and reasons for demand experienced by other providers of food parcels.
The study recognised that there are many non-Trust food banks - they account for only 20% of all food centres in Glasgow - but that there is no definitive list of Scottish food banks.
