A JUDGE sparked anger after appearing to suggest tragic student Karen Buckley “put herself in a vulnerable position” by drinking too much.
District Judge Nigel Cadbury made the “distasteful” comments the day after the body of the Irish student was discovered in Glasgow.
He was speaking at the sentencing of a woman who assaulted a reveller in a booze-fuelled fight outside a bar in Worcester.
Leanne Roberts, 21, told police she could not remember punching her victim because she had drunk too much.
The judge said he was concerned young women were placing themselves in danger by getting drunk.
He said it was “very, very worrying” to see drunk girls putting themselves at risk while out clubbing.
Judge Cadbury then went on to compare the situation to the killing of Miss Buckley, who disappeared after a night out on April 12.
Her friends have told police she had a few drinks but was not drunk when she vanished.
He said: “I find it incredible that young people can get so drunk that they don’t even know who they’re with.
“One only has to think about the horrible situation in Glasgow to see how serious this could have been.
“It’s very, very worrying how young girls put themselves in such very, very vulnerable positions.&quot;
Women's campaigners yesterday (Weds) slammed the judge, accusing him of making the “perpetrators of crimes invisible.”
Sarah Green, Acting Director of the End Violence Against Women Coalition, said the comments were damaging.
“He seems to be perpetuating the idea that young women drinking alcohol put themselves at risk of attack,” he said.
“Even if it is not meant, this implies that sexual violence is in some way inevitable and it is women's responsibility to avoid it.
“It makes the perpetrators of these crimes all but invisible.
“We have to get beyond this focus on women's behaviour regarding rape and shift it to the men who choose to commit these crimes.
“Because violence against women is not inevitable.
“We must start asking - who commits rape and why, what motivates them.
“Who do they target, why are they often confident they will get away with it, and what can we do to deter it?”
Worcester Magistrates’ Court heard married mum-of-one Roberts punched a woman outside Lloyds Bar in the city on March 22.
Prosecutor Owen Beale said she was “swaying and bouncing off doors” before launching the unprovoked attack.
“She said she had been out with friends had had two cans of cider before she went out, when she had shots of sambuca and cocktails,” he added.
“The next thing she remembered was being at the charge desk at the police station.
“She didn’t remember anything after about 10.30pm and couldn’t understand why she would have done it.”
Roberts was given a six-month community order, made the subject of a curfew and ordered to pay her victim &pound;200 compensation.
Judge Cadbury added: “There is a drinking problem because she (Roberts) can’t remember what she did.
“That is a problem. I am sure you are now aware of how vulnerable you made yourself.”
The case was heard less than a week after Miss Buckley disappeared in the early hours of April 12 sparking a huge police search.
Her body was discovered at High Craigton Farm on the outskirts of Glasgow on April 16.
Alexander Pacteau, 21, has appeared in court charged with her murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
