A man is facing a prison term after being found guilty of causing a &quot;kamikaze-like&quot; crash which killed his friend and badly injured five others.
Ian Milligan, 52, from Dumfries, caused the crash after driving onto the wrong side of the A702, near Abington, South Lanarkshire, on 8 July 2013.
His friend and passenger, Alistair Wells, 56, later died in hospital. Five people in the other car were injured.
Milligan will be sentenced later for causing death by dangerous driving. 
His trial at the High Court in Glasgow heard that Milligan and lifelong friend Mr Wells, also from Dumfries, were returning home from working on a building site in Edinburgh. 
William Johnston and his family were also on the A702 as they headed back from a holiday in Wales. 
Milligan ended up driving his Honda car on the opposite side of the road as he approached a bend, causing him to smash into Mr Johnston's oncoming Peugeot. 
An air ambulance was called to the scene to help the casualties. 
Mr Wells never recovered from his injuries and died the next day at Glasgow's Southern General Hospital. 
Mr Johnston suffered a broken elbow, his wife Deborah had a serious neck injury while three other relatives were also hurt - including one who later needed emergency surgery. 
Milligan - who also ended up in hospital - told the jury that he had no memory of the crash. 
Prosecutor Tim Niven Smith put it to Milligan that being on the wrong side of the road that day was &quot;kamikaze-like&quot;. 
Mr Niven Smith went on: &quot;This was suicidal...moronic to drive that way?&quot; Milligan said: &quot;Yes, moronic.&quot; 
The advocate depute added: &quot;You say that you cannot remember so cannot assist as to how you came to be on the other side of the road?&quot; Milligan replied: &quot;No.&quot; 
Lord Matthews continued bail as he deferred sentencing until next month for reports. 
The judge later told jurors: &quot;These cases are always very anxious and there are no winners or losers. They are a tragedy for all concerned.&quot; 
