A daring pensioner dressed up as Superman as he raised more than &pound;1,000 for charity by taking part in a zip slide across the River Clyde.
Richard Dorward, 77, proved he’s a real ‘man of steel’ as he took the plunge to raise money for Cancer Support Scotland.
The have-a-go OAP, of Neilston Road, Paisley, was among 38 adrenaline junkies who attached themselves to a wire and dropped 150ft from a tower at the Finnieston Crane over to a landing pad on the south side of the river.
Many reached speeds of 40mph as the Glasgow skyline whizzed past on the 17-second journey.
Richard, who is currently battling cancer, revealed that his son roped him into tackling the zip slide, which proved to be a thrilling experience.
He said: “This was a great way to raise money for the charity.
“I’d like to thank everyone who has supported me.”
Jennifer Little, of Cancer Support Scotland, added: “Richard was brilliant. It was an amazing thing to do and we’re really grateful for his fundraising efforts.”
Cancer Support Scotland offers free services such as counselling, reiki, reflexology, Indian head massage, stress management and aromatherapy.
And the Clyde zip slide event will help to make sure more people who are battling cancer will benefit from the charity’s work.
Colin Graham, chief executive of Cancer Support Scotland, said: “The zip slide is a white-knuckle ride but it’s a fun way to raise money and the people who take part are real heroes.
“We’re grateful to everyone who took part and to the people who sponsored them.
“All of our complementary services are free to people with cancer and their families and we continually need to raise money to help the increasing number of people seeking our support.
“We rely on fantastic volunteers, such as Richard, for funding which will allow us to help more people with cancer.”
For more information about the charity, check out the website at www.cancersupportscotland.org or send an email to info@cancersupportscotland.org
Alternatively, ring the freephone number on 0800 652 4531.
