TIME to change tyres last month, I thought – and then the snow started.
But with Easter and the school holidays under our belts now, I am going to take off my winter tyres from Continental and put on the tyres that originally came with my rear-wheel-drive BMW 2 Series.
It has been an interesting experiment over the last few months using tyres made specifically for our winter conditions.
I had never realised just how much difference they could make on a rear-wheel-drive car but now I am a total devotee.
Once I had grasped how well they would support me and the car in bad weather conditions, I became really confident on snowy, icy and flooded roads.
I wrote previously about the grip they showed in snowy, ungritted conditions on steep Montrose Street in Glasgow. We went up the hill as though it were midsummer.
If you want to know just how steep it is, check out the photo of top cyclist Mark Cavendish as he breasts the brow.
And they were fantastic on the M8, making short work of the slip roads and giving me loads of grip to change lanes even in the worst of the snow.
But the tyres were just as efficient and impressive in wet weather and I will be changing back to them next autumn without a doubt.
There has been some publicity recently about all-weather tyres but I would have to be convinced.
After all, surely something has to give if the tyres are to match all seasons?
Of course, you can drive all year on winter tyres should you wish.
They are made for temperatures below 7Cs but will continue to work during the summer months.
Although, be warned, and this is why I am changing tyres, stopping distances increase with winter tyres in the summer months, so I think it is worthwhile for complete safety to put your normal tyres back on.
Tyres are often the last thing on your mind when you are buying a new car but if you consider they are the most important thing between you and the road then it is worth thinking hard about just what you want underneath you.
That is certainly going to be my mantra from now on.
