A WOMAN whose out-of-&shy;control dog was repeatedly stabbed with a knife and hit with a hammer as it attacked a terrified dog walker and his pets has been fined and banned from owning Staffordshire bull terriers for three years. 
Thomas McIntyre, 73, was walking two West Highland terriers with his wife Margaret in Uddingston, Lanarkshire when the Staffie, called Blue, jumped a 6ft fence and mauled them. 
Mr McIntyre lay on the ground to try and protect his dog Angus as the Staffie sank its teeth into the animal. 
He was bitten in the face and arms and left with 21 injuries as Blue chewed Angus’s hind leg. 
The dog was owned by Pearl Davie, 55, who lived near Mr McIntyre in Uddingston. 
Neighbours had rushed from their homes armed with weapons including a Stanley knife and a hammer in a bid to help. 
Davie, a mental health nurse, was put on trial at Hamilton Sheriff Court and convicted of owning a dog that was dangerously out of control. 
Yesterday she was fined &pound;1,750 and ordered to pay Mr McIntyre &pound;250 in compensation.
She was also banned from owning a Staffordshire bull terrier or a cross or three years.
Ali Murray, defending, said: “This dog was a rogue animal and in hindsight she should never have taken that dog on.
“She thought she had done enough with this dog but appreciates that it wasn’t enough. She has paid the various vet bills that were a result of this incident.
“She is in a position to pay a compensation order and has also indicated she would be willing to undertake unpaid work if that was deemed appropriate. But I would put forward that a fine and compensation is the best way to deal with this &shy;matter.”
Mr McIntyre had earlier described the attack in September last year. He said: “My wife was screaming and a neighbour came out of his house.
“I asked him to get me a knife and he got a Stanley knife which he passed to my wife who made a couple of stabbing actions on its head but to no avail. 
“Another neighbour came round with a hammer and began hitting it with the shaft, I shouted for him to hit it with the metal end.
“The dog just wouldn’t let go but it opened its jaws, I managed to pull Angus out and ran away up the street.
“I was taken to hospital where I was treated for 21 puncture wounds.”
Speaking yesterday he said: “Angus has been left with a limp because of this. I’m delighted with the sentence because she is not a fit person to have any kind of dog.
“They have never once said sorry for what happened, there was skin hanging off my elbow and I was drenched in blood. I will be suing her for this.”
Sheriff Vincent Smith said: “The injuries this gentleman suffered were unpleasant and he got 21 puncture wounds as a result. In both incidents other dogs and members of the public were left terrified and with some reason.”
Blue was put down after the attack. 
