 TRAGIC Glasgow student Karen Buckley 's family are finalising arrangements to take their daughter home to Co Cork ahead of her funeral mass and burial mass on Tuesday. 
 It's understood that the 24-year-old’s body will be flown from Glasgow to Cork on Sunday. 
She will then be taken to Mourneabbey where she grew up on a farm, reports the Irish Mirror.
It's believed that the family want a rosary in private for relatives, neighbours and friends at their home on Sunday evening.
Karen's remains will lie at O’Connell’s Funeral Home, Mallow, from 4pm to 8pm on Monday before being brought to the church in Analeentha in Mourneabbey.
A funeral mass is due to take place at the Church of St Michael the Archangel, Analeentha at 2pm on Tuesday before burial at St John’s Cemetery in nearby Burnfort, also in the parish.
A funeral mass will be held at the Church of St Michael the Archangel, Analeentha at 2pm on Tuesday before burial at St John’s Cemetery in nearby Burnfort.
In a death notice posted on RIP.ie it says, &quot;Buckley (Glynn, Mourneabbey, Co. Cork) on 12th April 2015 unexpectedly, KAREN, beloved daughter of John and Marian and dear sister of Brendan, Kieran and Damien.
&quot;Sadly missed by her heartbroken parents, brothers, grandmother, uncles, aunts, sister-in-law Niamh, cousins, relatives, neighbours and her many friends.&quot;

Karen disappeared while out with friends at the Sanctuary nightclub on Dumbarton Road in Glasgow in the early hours of April 12th and her disappearance triggered a major search.
A second post-mortem was carried out on Karen's body on Friday.
 Chilling details emerged in court on Friday as a man charged with murdering the pretty Irish student appeared in court for a second time. 
Alexander Pacteau is accused of attacking her with a spanner and strangling her before covering her body in &quot;corrosive substances&quot; and putting her in a barrel.
The 21-year-old Pacteau appeared in the dock at a private court appearance on Friday for the second time for a full committal hearing.
Pacteau, from the city's west end, made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody by sheriff Kenneth Hogg
It is expected he will stand trial later this year.
Papers from Glasgow Sheriff Court claim that on April 12 at his Dorchester Avenue flat and elsewhere, he repeatedly hit her on the head with a spanner, or similar object.
The murder charge also reads that Pacteau &quot;compressed her neck&quot;.
Pacteau faces a second charge that between April 12 and 13 at his west-end flat and at High Craigton Farm, Drymen, knowing he had killed Miss Buckley, he &quot;applied corrosive substances&quot; to her body.
Miss Buckley, a qualified nurse, went missing following a night out at the Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow's West End on April 11.
Her body was later found by police at a farm to the north of the city.

