SUZANNE LAPPIN said her goodbyes to Glasgow City in style by scoring in a 12-0 demolition of Inverness.
The club's record goal scorer notched her 231st goal in her 259th outing to bring the curtain down on her time with the champions and she admits deciding to exit the club will leave a void both on and off the park.
She said: “Leaving Glasgow City is probably one of the hardest decisions I have ever had to make. Since I was 16 years old I have never lived in Glasgow and not been a Glasgow City Player.
“That will be a new and strange feeling for me. I have had so many amazing times at this club over the years from our first league title win to treble successes to the Champions League and playing in some of the best stadiums in the world. These are memories that I will treasure for the rest of my life! “The time is however right for me to leave the club.
“Between my work and football I spend very little time with the people who mean the most to me in my life and I want to share and enjoy amazing memories with them now. They have supported me so much in terms of my football and it’s time for me to give a little back. 
&quot;It goes without saying that this club will always be close to my heart and I wish the club all the success in the world. The people at this club are not just team mates to me but friends and I really will miss every single one of them but obviously not as much as they will miss me and my banter.&quot;
Susan Fairlie netted four and other goals came from Lauren McMurchie, Courtney Whyte, Abbi Grant, Erin Cuthbert, Kerry Montgomery, Rhonda Jones and Leanne Ross to seal the win over the Highlanders.
But City boss Eddie Wolecki Black admits it was a send-off for Lappin which surpassed expectations.
He said: &quot;We asked the players to start at a good tempo but I never thought it would be as good a half time score as it was.
&quot;We moved the ball really well with great pace and energy. We are delighted to get the victory and a clean sheet and it was a great way to send Sue off as she officially ends her career at the club, with a double figures win and that she got on the score sheet. 
&quot;We now look forward to Wednesday night at home against Spartans for the game in hand and hope we can close the gap between ourselves and the teams at the top of the table.&quot;
