IT IS fast-approaching decision time for those who haven't yet made their mind up who they will vote for in next week's general election.
Many people only really focus on the choice before them in the last days of the campaign. That encourages me. Because I am confident that Labour will gain support when voters look at our costed plan for government.
Labour believes that Scotland and Britain does well when working class families do well. We also think that it is only fair that if you are wealthy you should pay a bit more. This creates opportunities for others to get on in life and helps fund the public services we all value.
So Labour will raise the top rate of income tax for those earning at least &pound;150k per year; we'll introduce a mansion tax on properties above &pound;2million, most of which are in south-east England; we'll levy a tax on the bonuses of bankers; and we'll come after the tax-dodging millionaires.
The money that these progressive measures will generate will fund an extra 1000 nurses and 500 more GPs in Scotland; will pay for a guaranteed apprenticeship, or a job for all young and older unemployed people; will allow us to increase the bursaries of students from poorer backgrounds by &pound;1000; and we will provide &pound;1,600 to every young person who goes into work or sets up a business, so they can invest in their future.
Labour will also raise the minimum wage to at least &pound;8 per hour and will actively promote the Living Wage; we will abolish exploitative zero-hours contracts; and we will end the need for food banks by tackling the causes of poverty using money freed-up in Scotland by abolishing the bedroom tax across the whole of Britain.
Labour is also fully committed to maintaining the so-called Barnett Formula which is used to calculate the amount of funding Scotland gets each year. It delivers billions of pounds more for our schools, hospitals and pensions.
The SNP is recklessly committed to abolishing the Barnett Formula even though they signed-up to retain it as part of the Smith Commission agreement, which we will deliver in full within the first 100 days of a Labour government.
Instead, the SNP would introduce Full Fiscal Autonomy which means that Scotland can only spend what is raised in Scotland.
The big problem with the SNP's plan is that it creates a &pound;9 billion hole in our annual budget starting next year, a figure calculated by the highly respected and independent Institute for Fiscal Studies. This would lead to additional taxes in Scotland, huge additional austerity cuts and the abolition of the UK pension.
How can this possibly be in Scotland's interests?
So the more attention voters pay to the actual policies of they plans of the respective parties, the more confident I am that Labour will confound the polls and return a large number of Scottish MPs, without which we seriously risk another Tory government.
Because the fact is that any seats the SNP take from Labour in Scotland makes it more likely that the Tories will emerge as the largest party across Britain and so will get back into Downing Street for another five dismal years.
In every election under universal suffrage the party with the most seats has formed the government.
By way of example I can clearly remember the immediate aftermath of the 2007 Scottish Parliament election.
The SNP had one seat more than Labour but were miles off a parliamentary majority. That didn't stop Alex Salmond arriving by helicopter on the lawn of a five-star hotel in Edinburgh to host a presidential-style media conference during which he claimed absolute victory and moral authority to govern.
Mr Salmond did indeed go on to become First Minister and led a minority SNP government for a full four-year term.
Now the SNP expects us to believe that Labour will somehow be able to kick Cameron and Osborne out of Downing Street even if we end up with fewer MPs than the Tories.
Everybody know that doesn’t make sense.
I don't want to spend the next five years protesting against the Tories. I want to kick them out next week. And only Labour is big and strong enough across the UK to do that.
Many people who voted Yes did so because they saw it as a means of getting rid of the Tories, abolishing the bedroom tax and ridding Scotland of foodbanks and austerity.
Next week we will start to do all that and more if we get a Labour government. And the only way to get a Labour government is to vote Labour on May 7.
