Several Scots are among those still unaccounted for following the massive earthquake which hit Nepal on Saturday.
The Red Cross has compiled a list of people believed missing, which included 12 Scots names.
However, the families of some them have reported that they have now been in touch.
James Grieve, from Kinross, is among those still stranded on Mount Everest following earthquake-triggered avalanches.
At least 3,617 people are now known to have died in the disaster. More than 6,500 people have been injured, according to the National Emergency Operation Centre.
More than 200 climbers have been rescued around Mount Everest.
Mr Grieve told the Sun newspaper over a satellite phone from Camp One on the world's highest peak that the rescue effort was being hampered by storms and the party's supplies would last only a few more days.
He said: &quot;We are in a race against time to get off the mountain.&quot;
The International Committee of the Red Cross lists Brian Allen, 41, from Edinburgh, Seobhan McGuigan, 41, from Edinburgh, Lynda Davis, 50, from Scotland, Richard Jones, 59, from Glasgow, Susan McDonald, 41, from Dundee, and Mitchell Carpenter, 23, from Aberdeen, as missing.
The families of several others who were on the list have since said they have been in contact with their loved ones and that they are safe.
On Sunday, BBC Scotland spoke to the father of Jacqueline Toal, 34, from Glasgow, who was initially listed as missing but sent a text to her family to let them know she was safe.
Philip Toal said: &quot;I was trying not to panic. But when that text came through there was just elation. We'd heard conflicting stories about where the epicentre was so we didn't really know what to believe.
&quot;She said the ground shook and then within 10 or 15 seconds it got worse and worse and then at that point she realised it was an earthquake.&quot;
Two Aberdeen medical students caught up in the earthquake while on a trekking trip to Nepal also contacted family over the weekend to say they were &quot;safe but stranded&quot;.
Joseph Feeney, from Coatbridge, and Calum Henderson, said they were sheltering in a teahouse and being cared for by their Sherpa.
Mr Feeney's father, Dr Feeney, said: &quot;The boys have been told that they're really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn't have got back down. The landslide would have blocked them off. 
&quot;But they're fine, they're just a bit shook up. They're just wondering how they're going to get home.&quot;
Meanwhile, five Scottish Fire and Rescue Service officers from Aberdeen are to be deployed to Nepal to help with the recovery operation as part of the International Search and Rescue Service. 
