A talented former Vale of Leven Academy pupil has been reunited with a medal he won more than 80 years ago.
Robert Hunter was thrilled to be presented with the replica of the prize he was given in 1933 after drawing an elephant for an art competition.
His mum gave away the prized possession, along with two bronze medals, to boost the war effort.
But recently, thanks to an appeal by his grandson Steven Glennie, the proud 96-year-old was handed a replacement of the prize he won in an art competition while at school.
He originally won it in 1933 in the Glasgow Museums annual art competition at Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum. He was awarded first place and proudly took home his medal.
However, a few years later, during the Second World War, when he served in a light anti-aircraft unit, his precious medal was given away by his mother.
His determined grandson and his wife, Steven and Pam, were desperate to have Robert’s work recognised and approached Glasgow Museums regarding a replacement. Thankfully, they were pleased to step in.
When he attended at Kelvingrove for the presentation last week, Robert recalled his memories of taking the bus from Alexandria on Saturday mornings to visit the Glasgow museum. He loved to draw or paint the displays being exhibited.
Robert, who now lives in Kilmarnock, said: “I’m thrilled to get my medal after all these years. When I first had it, I didn’t want to lose it. I was afraid my mother would give it to the war effort. Some people thought the war would be over in no time at all, particularly if I gave up my gold medal.”
Councillor Archie Graham, chairman of Glasgow Life, which runs Kelvingrove as well as other museums across the city, was pleased to see Robert’s reaction.
He said: “I am delighted to present this replica medal to Robert. It’s an honour. His original drawing is outstanding and I am so pleased the family were able to bring it along today. This ceremony is another wonderful example of the successful partnership between Glasgow Life and Friends of Glasgow Museums.”
Friends of Glasgow Museums helped organise the presentation and got the replica medal made for Robert. 
Chairwoman Liz Dent added: “It has been lovely for everybody involved and Mr Hunter does seem to be very pleased.”
