WHEN Andrena Bain was diagnosed with breast cancer, she knew exactly what to expect as she had helped her mother battle the disease.
She was there every step of the way to support mum Anne Green, 68, who successfully fought breast cancer in 2005.
And when Andrena discovered a lump in her right breast, the close mum and daughter relationship they shared became a lifeline again.
Andrena, 47, of Glasgow, was diagnosed with breast cancer in November 2013.
She said: “The worst part was having to tell my mum I had cancer.
“It’s hard for any mum to hear those words from their child. I didn’t want to break my mum’s heart.
“We had dinner then I said to my mum, ‘I’ve got something to tell you.’ Her face fell. I told her I had cancer and from then on she wanted to come to all my medical appointments with me.
“At first, I wanted to try to do it on my own. Then I remembered that I’m her child, she just wants to be there to see I’m okay.”
 

Andrena had surgery at Stobhill Hospital, followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy at the Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre in Glasgow.
Having Anne by her side gave her the strength to stay positive throughout the treatment.
Andrena said: “It wasn’t always easy but I wanted to have some control over what was happing to me.
“When my hair began to fall out, I decided to shave it off and mum was brilliant. She was always by my side.
“She understood what I was going through better than anyone else.
“I don’t know how I would have coped without her support.”
Just two weeks after completing chemotherapy, Andrena donned a pink wig and took part in the Race for Life at Glasgow Green.
She was flanked by an army of family and friends, including four close pals from their school days at All Saints Secondary in Barmulloch.
Andrena, who is mum to Cameron, 15, is now cancer-free.
She said: “There is hope and there is life after cancer.
 

“You can come through cancer, reach the other side and life can be good again. It’s 10 years today since mum was diagnosed and together we have kicked cancer’s backside.”
The mother and daughter have teamed up with Heart Scotland breakfast radio presenter Adele Cunningham to kick off an urgent recruitment drive for runners.
They are appealing for people to sign up to Adele’s Army and join the Race for Life 5K at Glasgow Green on May 10.
Adele’s step-father John Mitchell, of Glasgow, was just 54 when he died from bowel cancer in 2005. And she is determined to do her bit to help beat cancer sooner.
Adele, 35, said: “Hell hath no fury like a woman in pink.
“With fire in their bellies and trainers at the ready, I can’t wait to lead Adele’s Army at Race for Life in Glasgow. That’s my message to ladies who are similarly determined to show cancer who’s the boss.”
Susan Johnstone, Scotland events manager for Race for Life, said: “We urgently need more mums, sisters, grans and girls to join our pink army and help beat cancer.”
Last year, almost 46,000 women took part in Race for Life across Scotland and raised &pound;2.9million.
As well as Glasgow, there are events in Edinburgh, Dundee, Inverness, Aberdeen and Irvine, among others.
 

●To find your nearest race and to enter, go to raceforlife.org or call 0300 123 0770.

