THERE may only be three of them nowadays but there was still enough of Take That to go around when they kicked off their UK tour last night at Glasgow’s SSE Hydro.
Gary, Mark and Howard delivered a spectacular show, using almost every inch of the cavernous venue, with a giant illuminated walkway running all the way around the floorspace.
They built atmosphere with 10 minutes of miming dancers working the stage to an electronic score before finally appearing through the stage to the glam stomp of I Like It.
With the roars of approval still ringing out they launched straight into Love Love, a swinging party number that owed more than a little to the early 80s electro sound of bands like The Human League and Depeche Mode.
Greatest Day was fired out early and went down a storm with the sold-out crowd adding 14,000 voices to its massive chorus.
It felt big enough to be a finale, but they were just getting started.
Tracks like Get Ready For It and Hold Up were soaring blasts of widescreen stadium pop, while Affirmation’s synth-led pulse was fuelled by frantic pneumatic beats.
Their sense of humour was on display every time they spoke to the crowd, particularly when they introduced themselves as “Mark, Gary and Howard, we’re what’s left of Take That”, much to the delight of the crowd who didn’t care who was missing.
 
Our first night selfie on stage!! #TTIIITour pic.twitter.com/6KXhEPAawt

The Garden signalled a dramatic change to the stage set, with the Hydro turning into a stunning psychedelic seabed, full of fluorescent jellyfish and colourful plants.
Hits like The Flood and Patience were greeted like old friends, but the response was nothing compared to the mania that greeted Could It Be Magic, initially started in ballad form before bursting to life in traditional high-energy style.
Even with only three of them left, Take That have still got it, putting on a show that firmly put all the young pretenders who have followed them in their place.
This is how you do it.
Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz:

