AS SECOND dates go it was a bit ambitious, or possibly downright stupid but you know how it is, a glass of wine over a romantic dinner turns into a conversation where you try to work out if the other person is keen.
Before you know it, you’re going to a music festival. Or maybe that’s just me.
 In the heady days of a new relationship, a weekend at T in the Park could be the most perfect thing in the world. Or a disaster. 
 Thankfully it was the former and my second date had the right combination of music, sunshine, beer and a trip to one of the smallest stages to see a new singer called Paolo Nutini . 
The weekend was a success and one of his songs was played at our wedding, so the festival holds a special place in my heart.
But I’m an animal lover too, so when people raised questions about wildlife at the proposed new site I took an interest.
 

 The arguments centre on a pair of ospreys who have returned to their nest at Strathallan Castle. I’ve never seen an osprey and have no interest in bird watching but I wouldn’t wish harm on any living creature. I don’t even eat meat. 
 Hang on though, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, who know far more about these things, have put down a set of guidelines they say will protect the ospreys from the noise and disruption . If it’s good enough for them, it’s good enough for me. 
 Is it good enough for everyone , though? 
The local people who do want T in the Park to take place at Strathallan – and there are lots of them – say protesters against the festival are NIMBYs who don’t want thousands of music fans coming to their corner of the countryside.
When DF Concerts, who run the festival, unveiled Strathallan as their proposed new home, I went up for a look.
 

As we trundled through the local lanes I saw a few signs of protest in gardens. One said “Keep your drug fest away”, others were more general. None mentioned ospreys or ancient woodland. Maybe I missed those signs.
I fear some of the opposition have the stereotypical image of a festival goer in mind. They think we’re all 18, off our heads on drugs and determined to wreck the place. I find that quite offensive.
Of course there will be extra traffic and noise. There will be thousands of people drinking and dropping litter but that will all be on private property and cleared up quickly. Most people camp, keeping disruption within festival walls.
There will also be a &pound;2.7million injection to the local economy, and lots of fun.
Surely the countryside should be open to everyone? Especially those who need an escape from daily life.
My advice to the doubters is to review the evidence, trust the animal experts, get yourself a ticket, listen to some music and let your hair down for a few days.
You never know, you might enjoy yourself and you could even fall in love.



 Try our quick entertainment quiz below: 

