FORECASTERS have warned the arctic 'snap' currently gripping the country is expected to last ANOTHER four weeks.
It seems we may have to wait a little longer to bask in the sunshine as colder-than-average temperatures are predicted to take hold over the next month.
The grim forecast came as more than four inches of snow fell in Scotland overnight.

The cold weather was good news for skiers in the Scottish resorts at Glencoe, Aonach Mor and Cairngorms with plenty of fresh snow.
But it also prompted a major road-gritting and snow-ploughing programme to keep open major trunk routes.
The MeteoGroup said up to two inches’ snow will have fallen on the Pennines and four inches on Scottish hills by Wednesday morning since Monday night.
MeteoGroup forecaster Mario Cuellar said: “The Highlands are cold and cloudy and we do not expect snow to melt for two days.”
The Met Office forecast snow in the North on Tuesday, and more snow or sleet on Wednesday in Scotland - although the cold weather is expected to ease by the weekend.
 

Met Office forecaster Nicola Maxey said: “Tuesday night could see snow on Scottish hills drift into northern England, with Wednesday seeing a possible wintry mix in Scotland.”
On Tuesday night parts of the UK were colder than Antartica.
Temperatures early yesterday (Tue) fell to -6.1C (21F) at Aonach Mor, Highland, Scotland, -3C (26F) in Cumbria and -1C (30F) in Dorset.
The US research base Palmer Station in Antarctica, is seeing lows of only 1C (34F)
The Met Office says the UK is set for a wet Bank Holiday weekend with rain in the South and West on Saturday, spreading to all parts by Monday..
A windchill is likely to make 8C(46F) to 14C (57F) higher feel more like 5C (41F) to 10C (50F).
Met Office forecaster Nicola Maxey said: “The weather we have at the moment looks like it will continue into the weekend.
“It will turn increasingly cloudy in the South and West from Saturday, with outbreaks of rain at times, probably moving northeast to affect all parts by Bank Holiday Monday.
“Rain will perhaps be wintry over higher ground in Scotland.”
 

The Met Office also forecast “below average” temperatures until May 11, followed by “near or a little below average” daytime temperatures to May 26, with cold nights and frost at times.
Nicola added: “Temperatures throughout the period from May 2 to May 11 are likely to be below average with local night frosts, especially in the North-East.
“From May 12 to 26, daytime temperatures are likely to be near or a little below average throughout.
“Spells of more settled weather are likely to be accompanied by chilly evenings with isolated overnight frost in rural areas.”
Channel 4 weatherman Liam Dutton said: “There are no signs of summer-like warmth returning.”
Last week temperatures hit 21C (70F) in the UK making it hotter than Alexandria, Egypt.

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

