 WHEN Sarah Forbes was eight, her bookish instincts landed her in hot water. 
 In her 20s, the same obsession with writing led to her being spat at by a llama, becoming part of the Peppa Pig empire and &shy;interviewing pop stars such as Rihanna and Cheryl Fernandez-Versini . 
Now she has come full circle, and is heading back to the classroom as a published author trying to introduce today’s eight-year-olds to the delights of reading and writing.
Her teacher’s response to her first attempts at writing is hard to forget.
Sarah said: “I got into trouble for making all these tiny wee books and bringing them into school.
“The teacher told me off for distracting other kids and told me to go and sit in the corner.”
 

Today she writes under the name Sarah Forbes and is desperate to get back into the classroom, distribute more books and spread the message about reading.
Her first story for children, Elspeth Hart and the School of Show-offs, has just been published and there’s nothing she likes more than reading it out loud to her target audience.
“I love it, it’s so much fun and kids often come out with really funny and clever ideas,” she said. “I may even get some ideas for future stories.”
Sarah, 35, knows at first hand that meeting an author can be a big deal for a young reader. Growing up in the north-east of Scotland, meeting children’s laureate Anne Fine was a huge thrill.
She said: “She came to &shy;Stonehaven library when I was a kid. It was so exciting to us that this author was coming to visit.
“I remember being quite dazzled. That makes me feel really good about going to do things in schools.”
Elspeth Hart is not one of those annoying role model characters that so many authors think youngsters should read.
She’s an orphan (who in &shy;children’s literature isn’t?) but starts out as quite a timid soul, &shy;thoroughly miserable at being dumped in a dorm full of narcissistic princesses and fed horrible food.
 

Sarah said: “She’s forced to live in a horrible, crumbling old boarding school with her aunt, the mean Miss Crab, who’s the chief cook at the school.
“So it’s a boarding school story turned on its head.
“All the pupils are really horrible show-offs, over-dramatic spoiled brats and the heroine is the quiet outsider who’s wound up there against her wishes.”
When Elspeth overhears someone talking about her parents, she works out that they might still be alive.
She goes on the hunt for clues, and on the way comes out of her shell. Sarah said: “She becomes a bit more enterprising and a bit tougher as the book goes on. I wanted her to be an every girl – a wee bit shy, not terribly confident, all at sea because she’s in this strange environment.
“A little person that any reader could identify with.”
The book is aimed at readers between seven and nine, who Sarah describes as “a lovely age group to write for”.
Despite having no kids of her own, her CV proves that she has a pretty good idea of what the weans want.
Her first job was with the girls’ &shy;magazine Animals and You, visiting llama farms and RSPCA centres, holding rats and being spat at by angry camelids.
After a stint at Peppa Pig magazine, she progressed to teen titles such as Mizz and Shout, interviewing Rihanna, Girls Aloud, Busted and 5ive.
Much as she enjoyed asking stars about their favourite colours and most &shy;embarrassing moments, when she was offered a job at children’s publishers &shy;Scholastic, she was off in a heartbeat.
 
Elspeth Hart and the School of &shy;Show-offs was written when she returned to Scotland after nine years in London, between studying for her master’s degree in creative writing.

She now works from home, advising and editing other children’s authors while squeezing in her own projects. The second Elspeth book is finished and due for publication in September. Sarah is currently debating what to write next.
Interviewing llama farmers and penning Peppa Pig competitions turns out to be a good introduction to the literary life.
Sarah said: “I write fast, to quite tight deadlines. I don’t faff around. It’s been good training for me. I make myself do a strict 9-5 and then have weekends off.”
There is, however, one place it all falls down. The kitchen. As soon as Sarah’s mind goes blank, she hears the siren call of the wooden spoon.
She said: “I tend to bake whenever I’m stuck for ideas. Brownies are good, or a cheese scone.
“Anything where you chuck everything in the bowl and do lots of stirring.
“I’ll probably be ballooning in size over the next six months as I continue writing.
“But it’s quite a nice way to step away for a minute.”

