SCOTS climber James Grieve is trapped 19,500ft up Mount Everest after he was caught up in an avalanche triggered by the deadly earthquake in Nepal.
The 52-year-old from Kinross cheated death by clinging to the mountain face with an ice pick when a wall of snow swept down the world’s tallest peak.
James, an engineer, who was scaling Everest to raise money for charity Children 1st, was with four UK partners when the avalanche hit.
The team, who were climbing with Bristol-based firm Summit Climb, are lucky to be alive but are now trapped in their camp after their route to the top was obliterated.
They now face a treacherous descent to a point where they can be rescued as the bad weather in the Himalayas has grounded helicopters.
James, who works in Kazahkstan, told the Sun: “Snow and ice was coming down as the glacier shook. We were lucky to survive. We all ran out of our tents. There’s around 12 people dead and 50 injured.
“There’s meant to be a storm coming. We are cut off from base camp. There’s no way down.”
 

More than 2000 people were killed by the massive 7.9 magnitude tremor which struck Nepal at noon on Saturday and it is thought at least 18 climbers perished on Everest in the avalanche that followed.
Many were buried alive and more than 60 were injured when the tremor sent tonnes of snow and ice cascading down on top of them.
Scot David Hamilton, 54, from Glasgow, one of the world’s most respected high altitude climbers and team leader with Sheffield travel firm Jagged Globe, also managed to survive the avalanche.
Nepalese officials estimated at least 1,000 climbers, including 400 foreigners, were on Everest at the time of the tremor.
The quake was the strongest to hit Nepal for 81 years and sent tremors through northern India, rescue efforts are continuing but hope is running out for those trapped beneath the rubble.

Aberdeen University medical students Joseph Feeney and Calum Henderson, who left Scotland last week to trek the Annapurna trail, have told anxious family members that they are not hurt.
Joseph, 21, from Coatbridge and Calum, also 21, who left Scotland last week to trek the Annapurna trail to celebrate the end of their exams, have told anxious family members that they are not hurt.
But dangerous landslides are continuing all around them, trapping them in a tea plantation between the tiny village of Pokhara and Annapurna.
In a text to his parents Joseph said: “The Annapurna base camp was trapped and cut off by a landslide, and an avalanche has made it impossible.”
The boys’ families have been in contact with the Foreign Office to raise concerns about getting their sons out if the danger zone.


