SUSPECTS should be videoed during police interviews to prevent miscarriages of justice, according to a review of the Scottish legal system.
Former High Court judge Lord Bonomy, in his report released yesterday, called for routine use of cameras in police stations and in the back of vehicles.
There is no standard rule on recording interviews in serious cases around Scotland.
Former regional forces in Grampian and Lothian routinely used video but other areas used only audio recordings.
Bonomy’s report said: “The combination of CCTV coverage of the public areas of police offices, the charge bar and the cell corridor, and continuous audiovisual recording of the interview room at all times when the suspect is present there, would enhance the transparency of the whole interview process and materially reduce the opportunities for misconduct or misrepresentation of conduct.
 

“The universal deployment of such measures would provide protection for both police officers and accused persons.”
Officers in some areas, including Aberdeen, have cameras on their uniforms.
Adding cameras to police vehicles would be straightforward, the report added.

Bonomy made the recommendations with a team of experts after the SNP attempted to scrap the centuries-old rule requiring evidence from more than one source to secure a conviction.
 
The plan to axe corroboration was formally dropped in a U-turn by the Scottish Government yesterday. But the extra safeguards will still be considered by SNP ministers.

Other recommendations include abolishing the need for some suspects to pay towards the cost of legal advice while they’re in a police station.
Bonomy’s review also suggested the practice of relying on dock identification should end.
More research should be carried out on the future of the unique Scottish three-verdict system, which includes not proven. Justice Secretary Michael Matheson said: “The issues that Lord Bonomy has raised are of crucial importance and I want to make sure we take the time to consider them fully.”
Deputy Chief Constable Iain Livingstone said: “Lord Bonomy’s report is welcomed and Police Scotland look forward to further dialogue to ensure any change to practice and procedure meets the needs and rights of everyone in Scotland.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

