A DEPUTE provost has been accused of URINATING in a bin shed while out canvassing for votes on the election trail.
Disgusted neighbours have told of their shock after apparently seeing prominent Labour councillor John Caldwell relieving himself just yards from their homes in an upmarket area of Elderlsie.
Caldwell, who represents Renfrewshire Council at civic events in his role as depute provost, had been out on the streets with party activists to drum up support for Douglas Alexander’s election bid.
However, residents claim he was caught short in Glenmalloch Place and instead of asking to use a toilet, he relieved himself at their bin shelter.
Retired headteacher Brian Wright has been left so angry about the incident, he has reported Councillor Caldwell to the Ethical Standards Commission, reports our sister paper the Paisley Daily Express.
More news from Paisley and Renfrewshire
 

Mr Wright, 59, said: “I’ve been left absolutely disgusted by this, who on earth urinates in a bin area beside people’s homes?
“I was sitting reading a book in my bedroom when I noticed a man going into the bin area and, at first, I thought he was just binning some of the election materials he was carrying, however he took his time and then left with a satisfied look on his face.
“When I looked out, I could clearly see the pool of urine he had left. I couldn’t believe it.
“I chased after the group and spoke to Hugh Henry MSP because I wanted to know if he was in charge of the canvassing and why he thought it was acceptable for someone to urinate over my property.
“However, I found him to be confrontational and aggressive so I turned my attention to who I now know to be depute provost John Caldwell and asked him why he had urinated on my property, to which he looked a bit sheepish and said ‘I shouldn’t have done it’.”
“That was all. No apology from either of the men. No offer to clean the mess. They just turned and walked away as if they had much more important things to attend to.
“Can you imagine the stooshie if I was to urinate in either of their gardens if I was caught a bit short one evening?”
Dad-of-two Mr Wright said he cleaned the mess up himself before any of his elderly neighbours stood in it.
He added: “There’s a 99-year-old woman who lives beside me who uses that bin shelter and I made sure the puddle was washed away and the area was bleached before she ended up getting covered in it.
“Every time I think about it I’m left furious and I feel that I’ve given Labour plenty of chances to give me a simple apology before I wrote to the Ethical Standards Commission about the incident.”
A second neighbour, who asked not to be named, echoed Mr Wright’s viewed.
He said: “I spotted the man shuffling around in the bin shelter although I didn’t know what he was doing at the time.
“It wasn’t until afterwards when the puddle of urine was left that we knew what had happened.
“I agree with Brian, it’s completely disgusting.”
We contacted Councillor John Caldwell and Douglas Alexander’s office in Paisley last night.
Councillor Caldwell refused to comment and there was no reply from the Labour Party.

