David Cameron was left red-faced yesterday after being caught joking about Alex Salmond being a pickpocket on live telly.
The Prime Minister, who had just done a viewer call-in on ITV’s This Morning, made the comment as host Phillip Schofield moved on to the next item.
Schofield said: “Up next, a man who can pinch your wallet, your watch and even your tie without you noticing.”
The Tory leader, who was off camera, could then be heard saying: “Is that Alex Salmond?”
Co-host Amanda Holden burst out laughing at the reference to the former Scottish First Minister as the programme went to ads.
Cameron has been slammed across the political divide for his attempts to turn the general election into a battle between England and Scotland.
He has been accused of cynically trying to stoke up nationalism in both countries to damage Labour leader Ed Miliband’s chances of getting back into Downing Street.
And yesterday Cameron furthered his campaign to win votes in England by talking up the risk of the SNP holding Labour “to ransom” after next month’s election.
He tweeted a video from an SNP campaign event in which Salmond jokes that he will “write” Ed Miliband’s budget.
 
This footage will shock you: Alex Salmond laughs &amp; boasts he’ll write Labour’s budget. Vote Conservative to stop it. https://t.co/A6DGJtM8OM

 
Salmond last night refused to see the funny side of the pickpocket quip.
He said: “The Tories have been picking Scotland’s pocket for years, and have been well and truly rumbled - which is why David Cameron and the rest of the Westminster gang are sinking like a stone in Scotland.
“Of course, it’s typical of David Cameron’s style to make an off-microphone jibe but he didn’t have the bottle to debate in the referendum, or with Nicola Sturgeon in this election campaign - if he had he’d be looking even more hot and bothered.”
Scottish Conservative North East MSP Alex Johnstone said: “This is clearly just a light-hearted comment by the Prime Minister.
“I’m sure Alex Salmond is big enough and tough enough to take a joke in good spirits.”
A Scottish Labour source said: “Neither man can be trusted - they’d both steal the sugar out your tea.”
In the interview, Cameron admitted the “close election” means he is not getting to see his family as much as he would like, revealing his four-year-old-daughter often asks if he has won the election yet.
