TRAGIC Glasgow student Karen Buckley’s parents will finally get to take their daughter’s body home to Ireland this weekend.
The 24-year-old's corpse was released late this afternoon after a second post mortem in Glasgow.
 Her parents could travel back to her home at Mourneabbey in north Cork as early as tomorrow morning with her, reports our sister paper the Irish Mirror . 
Members of Karen’s family will accompany the body on the flight from Glasgow.
The news comes as her family announced her funeral will take place on Tuesday in her hometown.
In a published a death notice, the family say: “Karen, beloved daughter of John and Marian and dear sister of Brendan, Kieran and Damien.
“Sadly missed by her heartbroken parents, brothers, grandmother, uncles, aunts, sister-in-law Niamh, cousins, relatives, neighbours and her many friends
“May she rest in peace.”

Earlier today chilling details emerged in court as a man charged with murdering the pretty Irish student appeared in court for a second time.
Alexander Pacteau is accused of attacking her with a spanner and strangling her before covering her body in &quot;corrosive substances&quot; and putting her in a barrel.
The 21-year-old Pacteau appeared in the dock at a private court appearance today for the second time for a full committal hearing.
Pacteau, from the city's west end, made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody by sheriff Kenneth Hogg.
It is expected he will stand trial later this year.
Papers from Glasgow Sheriff Court claim that on April 12 at his Dorchester Avenue flat and elsewhere, he repeatedly hit her on the head with a spanner, or similar object.
The murder charge also reads that Pacteau &quot;compressed her neck&quot;.
Pacteau faces a second charge that between April 12 and 13 at his west-end flat and at High Craigton Farm, Drymen, knowing he had killed Miss Buckley, he &quot;applied corrosive substances&quot; to her body.
It is alleged Pacteau put her body in a plastic barrel and &quot;concealed&quot; it in a storage shed.
Miss Buckley, a qualified nurse, went missing following a night out at the Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow's West End on April 11.
Her body was later found by police at a farm to the north of the city.
