A Castlemilk songwriter is on the rise, with a new single and support slots with a Britpop hero lined up.
Gerry Cinnamon made waves last year when his pro-independence single Hope Over Fear proved a huge hit with the Yes movement.
Now he’s just released the follow-up, Kampfire Vampire, tying into last weekend’s Record Store Day Celebrations.
And he’s been asked to support John Power, of Cast and the La’s, at summer shows in Glasgow and Edinburgh on June 5 and June 6.
2014 was a terrific year for the singer-songwriter, who mixes together beat-up acoustic guitars, soulful harmonica and heartfelt vocals in his music, along with loop pedal harmonies and kick drums.
A gig at Glasgow’s famed King Tut’s venue sold out in July, before Gerry had even released any records, simply through word of mouth.
A return visit in December also sold out, while other shows included the Commonwealth Games festival zone at Glasgow Green.
 

But it was last autumn that things really picked up for Gerry, when he penned the tune Hope Over Fear and became a hit with Yes supporters, with some hailing him as the “voice of the referendum” .
His first record release, the song charted at number 5 for two weeks in the alternative itunes chart and saw him close the show at a rally in George Square attended by almost 15,000 people.
The song tied in with Gerry’’s habit for writing songs that also feature contemporary social commentary, and he’s now on the books of Glasgow label First Run Records.
A full release for his next single, Kampfire Vampire, will follow in May after a limited edition came out for Record Store Day.

He’ll then support Cast man John Power when he plays acoustic sets at te Record Factory in Glasgow on June 5 and at Caberet Voltaire in Edinburgh on June 6.
His live gigs have featured covers of anything from happy hardcore to Flo Rida, so he’s got a talent for mixing things up when he can.
Tickets for both of Gerry’s gigs are available now and are priced at &pound;9.
More information on Gerry’s career and future appearances can be found online at www.facebook.com/Gerrycinnamonmusic
Try our general entertainment quiz below 

