A BRAVE hairdresser broke up a dog fight while two police officers watched from their squad car.
Louise Veitch, 39, grabbed a broomstick and forced a bull terrier-type dog to stop attacking a man’s terrified pet.
Police refused to leave their squad car - because they didn’t have the  right “dog protection” equipment.
The mum-of-two, boss of LV Hair in Main Road, Ayr, said: “The police didn’t do anything to help.
“They didn’t try to break it up, they just sat in the car.
“I wasn’t scared, the adrenaline kicked in. Nobody was doing anything and I couldn’t stand back.
“I just went for it and  I’d like to think somebody else would do the same for me.”
 

Police say the two CID officers were unable to try and stop the attack because they had no protective equipment.
They did call for back-up but it only arrived after the attack had ended.
Jason Bell owns Kaiser, the six-year-old dog that was the victim of the attack.
He said his pet had to be treated by a vet for cuts suffered in the fight.
Jason said he crossed the road to avoid the other dog and its owner as it  had attacked Kaiser before.
But the dog sprinted along the road to launch its attack.
Jason, 42, said: “I didn’t hear it coming, and it latched straight on to Kaiser’s throat.
“I ended up on my back and I was punching it and had my finger up its nostril, but it still wouldn’t let go.
“I was petrified and shaking.”
The dog only let go when the broom handle was inserted in its rear end.
 

A witness, who didn’t want to be named, said: “It had the dog by the throat and was biting into it. I’ve never seen anything like that, it was disgusting.
“The dog was screaming, it’ll be stuck in my head until the day I die.
“If that was a kid, they would be dead.
“The police are paid for that job, they’re paid to get out their car.
“They sat in the car and watched it – it was terrible.”
Stylist Debbie Torbit, 31, added: “There was a lot of blood, a lady was  sick because of it – I had to get her in for a drink  of water.”
In recent months, there have been a number of dog attacks in the area.
In January, a Staffie attacked a six-month-old puppy in Troon, leaving it with a broken jaw.
Last year, a nine-year-old girl was mauled as she played in a park in Ayr.
Police said a man has been reported to the procurator fiscal in connection with the latest incident.
