 MORE than a hundred students gathered tonight to hold a memorial for &quot;precious&quot; Irish student Karen Buckley . 
Friends and fellow students joined together at her university, Glasgow Caledonian (GCU), to hold a vigil for the 24 year old.
They played music and sang songs, while her close friend read out poems to the large crowd.
Karen went missing following a night out with friends at the Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow's West End last Saturday.
Her body was discovered by police last week searching an area around High Craigton Farm near Milngavie.
 Gathering outside an ever growing collection of floral tributes outside the university's Govan Mbeki building, one of Karen's lecturers from her occupational therapy course paid tribute to her. 
Her closest friends and classmates stood at the front, hugging each other as they spoke of her love for television show Father Ted.
 

The father of one of her classmates played a specially composed piece on the bagpipes dedicated to Karen.
Programme leader for MSc occupational therapy Jamie McDermott addressed the crowd, calling the event a chance to &quot;pay tribute and pay respect to our precious student Karen Buckley who we lost last week following a very tragic set of events&quot;.
He added: &quot;I'm very touched to be asked by our students to host this evening's event.
&quot;As a nurse Karen came to GCU to embark on a second professional journey, that to become an occupational therapist.
&quot;She commenced her studies in January 205 along with 34 other students and very quickly developed strong and meaningful friendships with staff and students alike.
&quot;She was loved, respected and admired by her fellow students for her ability to get on well with everyone and to keep the team together and in line.
&quot;Her passion for life, travel study and animals was limitless and this was observed by all who knew her.
&quot;The impact Karen has made in such a short period of time here at GCU is truly remarkable and this is clearly evident in the show of support this evening.&quot;
Two of her friends, Amelia and Orla, reflected on Karen's sense of humour.


They said: &quot;Like most of us Karen had a soft spot and love for Father Ted.
&quot;Anybody's who's familiar with Father Ted will now how funny, hilarious and witty it is.
&quot;I think this certainly portrays Karen's comic sense of humour, her love for a good laugh and her light-hearted nature.&quot;
They then played some music from the sitcom in her memory.
A minute's silence was then held in her honour.
It is the third event to mark the nursing student's death last week, following a vigil in George Square last Friday and a further memorial in the Garnethill area, where she lived, on Saturday.
A campaign by some of Karen's former nursing classmates from the University of Limerick has raised more than &pound;50,000.
Funds raised will assist her family with accommodation expenses and travel expenses while they are in Scotland and help pay the upkeep of their farm in County Cork.
 Alexander Pacteau, 21, appeared at court charged with her murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice last Friday. 
He is expected to make a further court appearance this week.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

