A retired businessman has been honoured by the Queen for dedicating his life to charitable service.
Bill Sommerville, 87, is being made a Knight of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem in this year’s Special Honours List.
It is a well-earned and highly-prestigious reward for 37 years of tireless fundraising.
Former Ibrox Printing Company boss Bill began volunteering with St John Scotland in the late 1970s and has since helped to raise millions of pounds for worthy causes.
And the honour is something of a family affair, as Bill’s 82-year-old wife Jean and daughter Alison, 49, have previously earned Member of St John and Officer of St John medals.
He told the Paisley Daily Express: “I’ve very glad to have been recognised in this way, although it’s only taken me 37 years of hard work to get here!
“They really don’t throw these honours about, so I’m very touched.
“What started almost by accident a long time ago is now quite a family affair.”
Bill, from Houston, first got involved with St John Scotland after his firm began printing free leaflets and posters for its fundraising events.
He rose through the ranks of the charity, which supports medical and emergency rescue activities, over five decades and is now chairman of the Glasgow branch.
“Many years ago, the charity needed some printing work done and, because it was for a worthy cause, I did it for nothing,” Bill explained. “We kept in touch and, eventually, I joined.
“The Order and its aims really appealed to me and I quickly got involved on the fundraising side.”
During his time with the cause, Bill has helped to raise more than &pound;100,000 to pay for a state-of-the-art baby ambulance for the West of Scotland Neonatal Transport Service, which has since carried around 1,000 sick infants.
The organisation also raises vital cash to run a hospital in Jerusalem, providing care to the area’s poorest families.
But one of the projects closest to Bill’s heart has been helping the Uplawmoor and Neilston First Responders.
The group provides life-saving first aid and medical care to those injured in East Renfrewshire’s rural villages.
Bill explained: “Those young people do a fantastic job. They’re out there 24/7, 365 days a year, helping to look after people until the paramedics come and, without question, they are saving lives.
“I’m very proud that St John Glasgow has been able to get them the most modern telephone system and a lot of the equipment they need.”
Bill admits that not all of his fundraising efforts have gone to plan, including printing a cookery book containing members’ recipes.
He laughed: “We thought it would be universally popular, so we printed 2,000 copies, but it took years to shift them!
“Eventually, we did manage to sell them all.”
A special ceremony will take place in London to enable the Duke of Gloucester to present Bill with the award to make him a Knight of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem.
Before then, he is focusing on his latest fundraising event – a cheese-and-wine night that will take place at Pollokshields Burgh Hall on Wednesday, April 22.
Tickets cost &pound;7.50 and are available by emailing jabingham@talktalk.net.
