Glasgow-based property manager Grant &amp; Wilson has been sold off in parts to three property firms.
Residential property letting manager Lomond Capital has acquired the Edinburgh and Aberdeenshire residential letting business of Grant &amp; Wilson for an undisclosed sum.
Grant &amp; Wilson's letting business, which trades as Bruce &amp; Partners in Aberdeen and Ellon following Grant &amp; Wilson's 2011 acquisition of the partnership, will add around 300 properties to the Lomond Capital portfolio.
The deal will swell the property portfolio of Stonehouse, Lomond’s lettings brand in the North East of Scotland, to 1,800 properties under management.
The Bruce &amp; Partners Ellon office will now be rebranded under the Stonehouse banner.
Braemore, Lomond’s Edinburgh-based letting business, will take on management of Grant &amp; Wilson’s 30 residential properties in the capital.
Lomond Capital sister company Strathspey Capital, parent company of James Gibb Property Management Ltd, has also acquired Grant &amp; Wilson Residential Factors, which operates from offices in Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.
Property agent DJ Alexander has acquired the Grant &amp; Wilson lettings business in Glasgow.
All Grant &amp; Wilson staff are transferring over to the buyer firms. 
Lomond said the latest deal takes the total value of the properties it has under management across Scotland, the North West of England and the Midlands to more than &pound;2 billion.
Stuart Pender, chief executive of Lomond Capital, said: “I am delighted that we have been able to secure this acquisition and integrate Grant &amp; Wilson and Bruce &amp; Partners portfolios into our existing businesses in Aberdeen and Edinburgh.
“We believe both cities offer great opportunities for buy to let investors with very positive returns from income and capital growth and we will continue to invest in these markets over the coming months.”
Strathspey’s chief executive, Douglas Weir, said: “We are committed to developing and building strong operations in both Glasgow and Aberdeen – replicating the successful growth model we’ve delivered in Edinburgh where we doubled in size within three years through the combination of strong organic growth and a local acquisition.
“The Grant &amp; Wilson deal is key to establishing our position as one of Scotland’s major players in the property factoring market. We will be looking to meet the ongoing demand for factoring, as the property industry continues to recover, with a good quality professional service.”
