MUM-of-four Sandra Cheyne never thought she would find herself using a food bank.
A hard-working secretary who never missed a day, the 40-year-old was left almost penniless after being forced to quit her job when she took maternity leave.
Within weeks her partner – a scaffolder – was laid low with a back injury.
Now her son William, just 16 weeks old, is being fed using milk tokens.
And Sandra’s welfare claim has been tied up in red tape for weeks, forcing the family to visit a food bank for the first time.
The story of this family’s torment comes as the  launches a campaign to promote the work of Trussell Trust food banks across Scotland. Record View
It’s called Feed a Family for a Fiver and it means you can help with just one simple text message.
We aim to highlight the plight of the hundreds of hard-pressed families forced to visit food banks every day.
When the Record met Sandra, she was exchanging vouchers for a three-day supply of food to feed her husband and children.
“I’ve always worked and I feel ashamed and embarrassed that it has come to this,” she said.
“If it wasn’t for this food bank, I don’t know where my family would turn.”
  George Osborne refuses to accept blame for scandalous rise in Scottish food bank reliance
 

Sandra, who was referred to the Glasgow South East Food Bank by the Benefits Agency, has waited for weeks for her benefits to be processed.
“I always thought that if you worked and paid taxes, the welfare system would act as a safety net,” she said.
“Instead, William’s been getting milk vouchers and now I’m here today.”
Sandra was served by Audrey Flannagan, a former social worker who volunteers at the food bank, which began more than three years ago as part of the Elim Church in Butterbiggins, Govanhill.
Referrals rocketed from 700 in year one to 4300 last year and it is thought that figure is soaring again in 2015.
“We have seen a big rise because of benefit wrangles and sanctions and people who are in work, but are too poor to cover all their bills and pay for food,” said Audrey.
Sandra, who had not worked for her employer long enough to qualify for maternity benefits, admits she dreaded her visit.
“I can’t thank the volunteers here enough,” she said. “They have made this experience much better than I thought it would be.”
As well as William, Sandra, originally from Shetland, has children aged 16, 10 and four.
Shortly before she arrived, Gwen Dempster, 40, collected her third food parcel.
Gwen hit rock bottom after her benefits were stopped in December.
Despite suffering lung problems and anxiety, she was declared fit to work by the Department for Work and Pensions and has been struggling ever since.
She said: “I don’t know how I’m supposed to live. I’m in a hotel at the moment.
“At least I have a roof over my head but that’s about it. I get toiletries here too. I simply don’t have any money at all.”
Gwen’s cousin Kenneth Watson, 41, has been supporting her where he can but his own benefits only stretch so far.
“My money goes fast when you think of heating, other bills and debts,” he said. “I just can’t afford food. Without the food bank, me and Sandra would likely starve.”
As single claimants, Gwen or Kenneth would typically get a three-day package consisting mostly of cereal, soup, beans, meat, pasta and tea bags.
In just 90 minutes, more than 20 people passed through the doors of the food bank, many with children.
Many were too shy or embarrassed to speak about their plight but the brave few who chose to tell their stories praised the selfless work of the volunteers.
Much of the food is provided by Elim and other churches as well as supermarkets and individual donors.
VICIOUS benefit cuts and zero-hour contracts have left thousands of Scots on the breadline.
Many are disabled and have seen their benefits slashed or halted entirely after being reassessed as “fit to work”.
Others are hard-working parents who struggle to feed their families on low wages and insecure jobs.
Today, the Record is teaming up with the Trussell Trust to help give struggling Scots a leg-up.
Our Feed a Family for a Fiver campaign aims to ensure no one need suffer food poverty.
For just &pound;5, you can help the Trust provide one day’s worth of meals for a family of four.
A donation of &pound;10 covers the delivery cost of providing three food boxes to crisis-hit families in rural areas.
If we raise &pound;10,000, the Trust will invest in a second-hand van with running costs paid for six months to transport food to communities that need it most.
Text DREC50 and the amount you wish to donate (example DREC50 &pound;5) to 70070. The text is free but the donation will be added to your bill.
Or, readers can visit www.justgiving.com/DailyRecordFiver
It’s time to support our most vulnerable by ending food poverty and supporting Scottish food banks.

