A FORMER church deacon wept yesterday as she told a court that a man she called The Prophet touched her inappropriately while claiming he was curing her of a stomach ailment.
The 32-year-old African mother of four said she had been persuaded by her husband’s family to join an English branch of a Pentecostal church known as Agape for All Nations, based in Stirling .
The woman, who cannot be named, said as part of her involvement with the church, she had to undergo an all-night “deliverance” after her husband, whom she has since left, told her she had to be delivered from demons.
She said: “In Manchester in 2011 I went an eight hour deliverance service. I was literally pinned to the floor and people were pushing my head. It was quite a violent process.”
She said the Agape church, which she said now had many branches, was founded by 51-year-old Walter Masocha, who was called “The Archbishop” and “The Prophet” and claimed to have heard God speaking to him after fasting for a week at a prayer meeting in St Andrews.
She said: “He said that in an audible voice, God had told him to found the church and ‘deliver my people who are suffering’.”
She said she paid several visits to Masocha’s large home, Cosyneuk House at Sauchieburn, near Stirling, which she said had five bathrooms, “numerous” bedrooms and a large kitchen.
She said Mashocha - who always had a bodyguard - used to touch her when he was praying for her.
She told jurors at Falkirk Sheriff Court : “It was on more than one occasion. I went home and spoke to my husband and my husband said he [Masocha] was anointed, and he was The Prophet and he was allowed to do that.”
She said she and other female church members called Masocha “My Dad”.
She said one one occasion in 2012 she had gone into Masocha’s office in Coseyneuk House “to see him about the work of God”.
Masocha had hugged her “very intimately”, caressing her back and kissing her round the neck.
She said: “I felt confused, I felt violated.
“He was saying ‘receive my love’.
“At one point I felt his manhood against me.”
On another occasion in May 2013, also in Masocha’s office, he told her he would pray “for her whole body”.
She said: “He touched the top of my head, my eyes, my nose, my ears. He was saying ‘I’m praying for every part of your body’.
“He touched my shoulders, and went down and touched my chest.
“I felt violated.”
She said she had once gone to his office for prayer with a stomach complaint.
She said: “He said he was going to pray it away. He touched my tummy, then his hand went down my body, onto my private parts.”
Weeping, she said: “It was like he was feeling me. I was so shocked. At that time I saw him as somebody who could never do any wrong, because that was what he used to teach us.
“My husband told me ‘the Prophet is seeing something in your genitals that needs to be removed, so he was removing that’.
“Outside, I had to believe that, but inside I didn’t.”
The woman told the court that she later fled her matrimonial home with her children, and spoke about what had happened to her brother, and others.
She said: “Suddenly, my eyes were opened. This man was touching me inappropriately.”
She added that Masocha has told her that God had told him that “he was the one with the keys to her destiny”.
She said she and her husband had paid over “a lot of money” to the church, including &pound;600 in an envelope they had saved for a mortgage, “child credits”, and “tithes”.
She said: “The doctrine we were taught was that we had to release money, and God would open doors for us.”
“You are putting in most of your money to the point where your children are left hungry.”
Masocha, of Sauchieburn, denies sexually assaulting the woman between April 01, 2012, and March 30, 2013.
Further charges, which he also denies, allege that he induced a 12 year girl to sex-massage his body with oils and engaged in sexual activity with a 14-year-old girl.
He is said to have committed the offences at the Church, at his home in Sauchieburn on the outskirts of the city, and at the plush Crieff Hydro Hotel in Perthshire .
Overall, the incidents are said to have occurred over a two-year period between January 2012 and January 2014.
The trial, before Sheriff Kenneth McGowan and jury, will continue today.

