THE father of an alcoholic who died in rehab is to sue the carers who were treating him.
Frankie Hughes died after suffering a fit triggered by alcohol withdrawal symptoms.
The 34-year-old had checked into a specialist unit run by Turning Point Scotland in a bid to quit the booze.
But he suffered the fatal seizure just six hours after his arrival.
Now his dad Frank has instigated legal action after two experts claimed the Glasgow-based organisation may have been to blame.
It emerged that Frankie wasn’t given medication which a doctor had prescribed to prevent him having a fit.
Frank, 53, of Calton, Glasgow, said: “I believe my son would be alive today if he’d been treated properly with the medication prescribed.
“I’m also horrified that I called three times on the night he died and was told everything was fine. The calls were all made after Turning Point had already found his body at 6.30pm.
“But the first I knew of my son dying was when the police knocked on my door the following morning.”
Lawyer Cameron Fyfe is preparing a negligence claim against Turning Point.
One senior doctor consulted over the case said: “Patients withdrawing from alcohol need to be administered the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment regimen as stated. Turning Point failed to administer diazepam. The lack of diazepam, in my opinion, significantly increased the chances of developing epileptic seizures.
“As Turning Point recognised the need for diazepam and had the the intention of administering it, my opinion is failure to do so was negligent.”
A second expert witness said: “If Turning Point is admitting patients as complex and as high risk as Mr Hughes, there has to be medical input for examination, risk assessment and prescribing, and an addiction nurse for monitoring medication and signs of withdrawal.
“Failure by Turning Point to ensure hands-on medical and addiction nurse input was negligent.”
Turning Point Scotland said: “As is standard procedure if there is a death in one of our services, the police were informed and investigated.
“A report was sent to the fiscal who took no further action and did not find grounds to hold a fatal accident inquiry.
“Any death in one of our services is a personal tragedy and we offer our sincere condolences to the family.”
Turning Point were fined &pound;45,000 in 2009 for scalding a man with severe learning difficulties in a bath.
And in January they were criticised for issuing junkies with free tin foil to try to get them to smoke heroin instead of injecting it.

