At least three Scots are known to have been caught up in the Nepal earthquake and subsequent avalanches which hit the Everest region.
James Grieve, 52, from Kinross became trapped on Mount Everest along with four others from the UK. 
Mr Grieve said his group had been cut off from their base camp, and that there was &quot;no way down&quot;.
Another two men - Joseph Feeney and Calum Henderson - on a trekking trip to Nepal are &quot;safe but stranded&quot;.
Nearly 2,000 people have been killed in the earthquake and avalanches, which have been described as the worst to hit Nepal in more than 80 years.
Speaking to the Sun newspaper, Mr Grieve said his group, who were on a Help for Heroes climb, had been &quot;lucky to survive&quot;.
He said: &quot;Snow and ice was coming down as the glacier shook. We were lucky to survive. We all ran out of our tents. 
&quot;There's around 12 people dead and 50 injured.
&quot;There's meant to be a storm coming. We are cut off from base camp. There's no way down.&quot;
Mr Feeney, from Coatbridge, and Mr Henderson, from Edinburgh, had travelled to Nepal as a treat after passing their third year exams. 
They are both 21-years-old, and medical students at Aberdeen University.
Mr Feeney's father, Dr James Feeney told BBC Scotland that the two were currently with another group, sheltering in what's called a teahouse. They were being cared for by their Sherpa.
Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland, Dr Feeney said: &quot;They [the boys] say this teahouse is mobbed to the rafters with people coming off the mountain. They've been given hospitality by the locals and their guide. 
&quot;The guide was really worried because his family are in Kathmandu. Apparently his family are all well, but his house was demolished - completely flattened by the earthquake.&quot;
He continued: &quot;The boys have been told that they're really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn't have got back down. The landslide would have blocked them off. 
&quot;But they're fine, they're just a bit shook up. They're just wondering how they're going to get home.&quot;
&quot;The village where they're staying is all single storey buildings so hopefully they're quite safe there. 
&quot;Looking at the TV screens and seeing what could have happened to them, me and my wife, we're just counting our blessings - Thank God.&quot;
It is thought that Mr Feeney and Mr Henderson are somewhere between the villages of Senwa and Pokhara. They had been en route to the Annapurna base camp, in the Himalayas when the earthquake hit. 
The UK Foreign Office (FCO) has released an emergency number +44 (0) 207 008 0000 for British nationals needing consular assistance.
It also says it has offered assistance to local authorities and has advised British nationals in the area to stay &quot;in a place of safety&quot;.
The search engine Google has launched a website to help locate those caught up in the disaster.
