A BUSINESSMAN'S guard dog has been seized by police after two women claimed they were mauled in the wake of a bitter neighbourhood dispute.
Omar Khan, 25, faced having Alsatian Shiro destroyed after it allegedly escaped from his garden and launched the attacks.
Khan has been at the centre of an anti-social behaviour row with other residents in his suburban street.
And he blames the latest allegations on racism.
The long-running feud flared up after Shiro allegedly bit a female dog-walker before attacking another woman.
Trained handlers were called in to seize the dog after last Monday’s incidents.
 The 28-strong Khan family have been at loggerheads with other residents in their street in Cambuslang, Glasgow, since they  moved into a converted nursing home two years ago. 
Neighbours started a petition against them which included complaints about high noise levels.
Twelve residents in the street took Khan to Hamilton Sheriff Court in a civil case last year claiming Shiro barked non-stop through the night.
A sheriff ordered the family to keep the dog quiet between 10pm and 10am.
Locals have also raised concerns about the safety of children at a nearby nursery.
One resident, who wanted to remain anonymous, said: “It’s been hell. We always knew this was an accident waiting to happen.

“The police came to my door and told me that one lady was bitten in the buttocks and on the calf.
“They told me they weren’t happy to remove the dog and were calling in specialist dog handlers.
“The Khan house is across the road from a nursery. If the dog had reached a child then the outcome could have been a lot worse.
“There have been problems since the Khans moved in. We know the dog has escaped before and every time somebody passed the house it would frighten the life out of them and behave aggressively.
“Our intent was never to have the dog destroyed.
“A petition signed by us all went to Hamilton Sheriff Court because the situation was out of control.
“When we eventually got a court order, which ruled on our side, he challenged it and won.”
Khan, whose family run Khan’s Autos in Glasgow’s Govanhill, said his family were the victim of a vendetta and had been targeted by racists. He denied Shiro had escaped from the garden and vowed he’d get the dog back.
Khan, who says he’s had the dog for 10 years, said: “It will definitely be coming back. This is a false accusation.
“I’ve got 15 kids in the house so there’s no way we would have a dog that’s dangerous.
“It scratched one lady with its paw but neighbours are saying it attacked people.
“Shiro was in our garden when a lady went past and her dog was barking. She lifted her dog up and tried to kick my dog and he scratched her leg.
“The other lady says the dog bit her coat but if that is the case why have police not seized her coat as evidence?
“There’s not been any Asian people in this area for a decade so obviously we’ve been having a lot of problems.
“Our wall was vandalised with a swastika and we reported it to police.
“Any cars we park outside the gates are vandalised and scratched but nothing is ever done.”
A police spokesman said last night: “A 25-year-old man has been reported to the procurator fiscal in connection with this incident.”
 

