IT'S a whole new fast food concept – from cow to cone in one hour.
At The Milk Barn in Falkirk, customers can tuck in to their favourite ice cream while watching the herd of cattle which produced the vital ingredient.
Dairy farmers Alistair and Suzannah Reid have opened a welcoming parlour in the middle of rolling fields with the cafe just a short walk from the milking sheds.
And the result is the freshest ice cream that goes from Friesian to freezer in less than 60 minutes.
Mum-of-four Suzannah, 39, said: “We started thinking over the idea about 10 years ago. The milk price had got so low but we didn’t want to give up the farm where Alistair’s family have worked since 1916.
“My grandmother bought an ice cream machine when I was a child and I’ve been making it ever since.”
Since opening less than two years ago, The Milk Barn has become a must-stop for ice cream connoisseurs and now supplies stands at the Kelpies in the nearby Helix park.

The Milk Barn is also among the first cafes to be nominated in our annual Golden Cone Awards after customers decided they deserved recognition.
Entries have been flooding in since we launched our search for the best ice cream parlour in Scotland two weeks ago. At The Milk Barn, based at Glen Farm in the hills above Falkirk, customers love the back-to-basics approach of using locally sourced produce.
Suzannah said: “Alistair milks the cows first thing in the morning. I fill buckets from the milk tank and put it into the pasteuriser to start making ice cream with it.
“I take off a batch at a time to make the flavours we need – things like fresh strawberries or tablet made by my friend Karen. We have about 100 flavours now.
“The customers can watch through a viewing window while it’s being made.
“Our plain ice cream – Pure Moo – is a basic ice cream with no flavours added and it easily outsells vanilla now.”
And she’s delighted to be in the running for the Golden Cone trophy, despite being a relative newcomer to the market.
She said: “It’s great to feel people like what you do. It’s hard work but it’s nice work.”
The family-friendly parlour might have started as a way for the Reids to supplement their income but it is now being used to teach children about the origins of the food they eat.
The cafe even features Glenda the fibreglass cow for children to practise their own milking skills.
Suzannah said: “We’re now in partnership with the Royal Highland Education Trust. They bring school groups to learn about milk and ice cream production.”
 Nadia Millar, of award sponsors Waverley Bakery, said: “To be able to serve ice cream which has been produced by  your own herd of cows is fantastic. 
“The entries have been coming in thick and fast for this year’s awards and it’s great to see customers supporting their favourite shop.”
Tell us who you think should be in the running for the Golden Cone Awards 2015 and you could win your own ice cream van for a day. Nominate a cafe and you will be entered into a prize draw. After nominations close, one entry form will be selected at random and the winner will scoop a visit from an ice cream van or cart to an event of their choice.
 To nominate, go to www.sundaymail.co.uk/goldenconeawards or ask your cafe for an entry form and post it to Golden Cone Awards, Innovations Department, One Central Quay, Glasgow, G3 8DA. 

