A huge surge in demand for Scotch whisky has sparked a project to grow extra barley – in the Netherlands.
Farmers who grow the crop there as a cereal or for beer production have been asked to turn over part of their land for whisky instead.
Worldwide growth in consumption has forced Scots distilleries to look for alternative sources of barley – and experts say the clay soil in the north of Holland is ideal.
Now a group of 30 farmers have signed up to grow for a firm which will malt the crop in the Netherlands before distilling it in Scotland, meaning it can still be described as authentic Scotch whisky.
The Dutch farmers involved have sown 300 hectares for barley which will be harvested in August. Production follows a pilot project last year which saw about 40 hectares in the region cultivated for Scotch whisky barley.
Ate Biljsma, a farmer in the Frisian region, said: “Scottish distilleries asked a malt company in Holland for help. They approached a company called Agrifirm, who asked us farmers.”
Ate, 52, who has farmed for 31 years in the village of Firdgum, claims he’s never tasted Scotland’s national drink.
He added: “We hope the Scottish distilleries will be content with our way of producing and our quality so we can expand production for them.

“Agrifirm are giving us good advice such as what kind of fertiliser to use. I have not tasted Scotch whisky but now I have a reason to do it.”
Malting barley for whisky generates 10 per cent more in income than barley for the beer industry.
Most barley for Scotch is grown in Scotland but some is already grown in other countries, including England.
 According to latest figures, the whisky industry is worth &pound;5billion to the UK each year and supports more than 40,000  jobs. And although UK sales are falling – with the whisky market shrinking by nearly 10 per cent since 2009 – it has been offset by huge sales growth worldwide. 
 Sales in Taiwan were up by more than a third last year, to &pound;197million, while sales in India and the United Arab  Emirates were up by more than a quarter, to &pound;89million and &pound;116million respectively. Sales in Japan rose by nearly 10 per cent to &pound;64million. The biggest foreign markets by value are the US (&pound;750million), France (&pound;445million) and  Singapore (&pound;201million). 
 Rosemary Gallagher, of the Scotch Whisky Association, said: “The industry uses Scottish barley when it can. As a result, nearly 90 per cent of barley used to produce Scotch is from Scotland. 
“But it’s also important to source on the basis of available quality and quantity so Scotch whisky is produced to the high standards consumers expect. We welcome any initiatives to help this.”
Industry expert Jim Murray, author of the Whisky Bible, said: “Some people may have a problem with this from a romantic point of view but you have to look at it on a practical level.
“I don’t care whether the Scottish whisky industry buys its barley from Australia – it’s how well they distil and how good their casks are that really matter.”
No one was available for comment at Dutch farming cooperative Agrifirm.

