There is no proof that prisoners were on board when CIA torture flights landed in Scotland, detectives claim.
A two-year police probe into the so-called rendition flights has failed to unearth evidence that terror suspects were travelling on planes which used Scots airports.
Officers from Police Scotland’s Major Crime and Terrorism Investigation Unit launched a major inquiry into evidence that aircraft travelled via Scotland to or from torture sites.
Researchers believe the flights were part of rendition circuits used by the US to move terror suspects between secret jails and interrogation centres.
We revealed last year that detectives were focusing their inquiries on six stopovers in Scotland.
Dozens of other CIA-linked flights which passed through Scottish airports are also suspected as possible rendition flights.
Police last week revealed a probe into “extraordinary rendition was ongoing” but said nothing had been found to suggest suspects were on board at the time.
It’s believed the Scottish stopovers may have been for refuelling, crew rest or other technical reasons.
It’s unclear what charges could result from the police inquiry but Scotland’s top law officer has instructed detectives to carry out a thorough probe.
A previous investigation in 2007 and 2008 found insufficient evidence to proceed any further but in 2013 Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland QC asked police to reopen the inquiry.
 He said at the time: “There should be no dilly-dallying. I am confident the police will conduct a thorough inquiry. The use of  torture cannot be condoned. It is against international law and the common law of Scotland.” 
The police are understood to be focusing on six stopovers – four at Prestwick Airport in Ayrshire and two at Glasgow.
All are “known or highly likely” to have been part of rendition circuits.
Other flights implicated in possible rendition landed at Edinburgh, Wick, Inverness, Aberdeen, Dundee and Leuchars.
The police probe includes looking at evidence a CIA jet landed in Glasgow after carrying 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to a secret torture prison in Poland.
A rendition circuit was a series of flights by a CIA aircraft, picking up suspects from one foreign prison and taking them to another before returning to America.
 Academics from research group the Rendition Project say jets would stop in Scotland on the outward or return legs of  rendition circuits. 
The project’s Dr Sam Raphael said: “We welcome the police investigation. It needs to be robust and comprehensive to get to the bottom of Scottish involvement in these crimes.”
In December, a US Senate investigation found a network of CIA torture prisons – known as black sites – from Thailand to Poland to the notorious Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.
Their report triggered demands for a similar, full-scale inquiry in Britain.
Mulholland also instructed Scots detectives to scrutinise the report for evidence which may help their inquiry.
DCI Faroque Hussain, of Police Scotland’s Border Policing Command Investigations, said: “An investigation into extra-ordinary rendition is ongoing.
“Inquiries to date have not uncovered evidence of detainees being on board aircraft which stopped in Scottish airports.”
Last week, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said they were considering releasing flight records relating to Diego Garcia, following disclosures in the US that interrogations took place at a CIA black site on the British-governed island in the Indian Ocean.
FCO officials said they are “still assessing the suitability of the full flight records for publication”.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

