
 archive-name: atheism/logic
 alt-atheism-archive-name: logic
 last-modified: 5 april 1993
 version: 1.4
 
                        constructing a logical argument
 
 although there is much argument on usenet, the general quality of argument
 found is poor.  this article attempts to provide a gentle introduction to
 logic, in the hope of improving the general level of debate.
 
 logic is the science of reasoning, proof, thinking, or inference [concise
 oed].  logic allows us to analyze a piece of reasoning and determine whether
 it is correct or not (valid or invalid).  of course, one does not need to
 study logic in order to reason correctly; nevertheless, a little basic
 knowledge of logic is often helpful when constructing or analyzing an
 argument.
 
 note that no claim is being made here about whether logic is universally
 applicable.  the matter is very much open for debate.  this document merely
 explains how to use logic, given that you have already decided that logic is
 the right tool for the job.
 
 propositions (or statements) are the building blocks of a logical argument. a
 proposition is a statement which is either true or false; for example, "it is
 raining" or "today is tuesday".  propositions may be either asserted (said to
 be true) or denied (said to be false).  note that this is a technical meaning
 of "deny", not the everyday meaning.
 
 the proposition is the meaning of the statement, not the particular
 arrangement of words used to express it.  so "god exists" and "there exists a
 god" both express the same proposition.
 
 an argument is, to quote the monty python sketch, "a connected series of
 statements to establish a definite proposition".  an argument consists of
 three stages.
 
 first of all, the propositions which are necessary for the argument to
 continue are stated.  these are called the premises of the argument.  they
 are the evidence or reasons for accepting the argument and its conclusions. 
 
 premises (or assertions) are often indicated by phrases such as "because",
 "since", "obviously" and so on.  (the phrase "obviously" is often viewed with
 suspicion, as it can be used to intimidate others into accepting suspicious
 premises.  if something doesn't seem obvious to you, don't be afraid to
 question it.  you can always say "oh, yes, you're right, it is obvious" when
 you've heard the explanation.)
 
 next, the premises are used to derive further propositions by a process known
 as inference.  in inference, one proposition is arrived at on the basis of
 one or more other propositions already accepted.  there are various forms of
 valid inference.
 
 the propositions arrived at by inference may then be used in further
 inference.  inference is often denoted by phrases such as "implies that" or
 "therefore".
 
 finally, we arrive at the conclusion of the argument -- the proposition which
 is affirmed on the basis of the premises and inference.  conclusions are often
 indicated by phrases such as "therefore", "it follows that", "we conclude"
 and so on.  the conclusion is often stated as the final stage of inference.
 
 for example:
 
 every event has a cause (premise)
 the universe has a beginning (premise)
 all beginnings involve an event (premise)
 this implies that the beginning of the universe involved an event (inference)
 therefore the universe has a cause (inference and conclusion)
 
 note that the conclusion of one argument might be a premise in another
 argument.  a proposition can only be called a premise or a conclusion with
 respect to a particular argument; the terms do not make sense in isolation.
 
 sometimes an argument will not follow the order given above; for example,
 the conclusions might be stated first and the premises stated 
 afterwards in support of the conclusion.  this is perfectly valid, if 
 sometimes a little confusing.
 
 recognizing an argument is much harder than recognizing premises or
 conclusions.  many people shower their writing with assertions without ever
 producing anything which one might reasonably describe as an argument.  some
 statements look like arguments, but are not.  for example:
 
 "if the bible is accurate, jesus must either have been insane, an evil liar,
  or the son of god."
 
 this is not an argument, it is a conditional statement.  it does not assert
 the premises which are necessary to support what appears to be its 
 conclusion.  (it also suffers from a number of other logical flaws, but we'll
 come to those later.)
 
 another example:
 
 "god created you; therefore do your duty to god."
 
 the phrase "do your duty to god" is not a proposition, since it is neither
 true nor false.  therefore it is not a conclusion, and the sentence is not an
 argument.
 
 finally, causality is important.  consider a statement of the form "a because
 b".  if we're interested in establishing a and b is offered as evidence, the
 statement is an argument.  if we're trying to establish the truth of b, then
 it is not an argument, it is an explanation.
 
 for example:
 
 "there must be something wrong with the engine of my car, because it will not
  start." -- this is an argument.
 
 "my car will not start because there is something wrong with the engine."
  -- this is an explanation.
 
 there are two traditional types of argument, deductive and inductive.  a
 deductive argument is one which provides conclusive proof of its conclusions
 -- that is, an argument where if the premises are true, the conclusion must
 also be true.  a deductive argument is either valid or invalid.  a valid
 argument is defined as one where if the premises are true, then the
 conclusion is true.
 
 an inductive argument is one where the premises provide some evidence for the
 truth of the conclusion.  inductive arguments are not valid or invalid;
 however, we can talk about whether they are better or worse than other
 arguments, and about how probable their premises are.
 
 there are forms of argument in ordinary language which are neither deductive
 nor inductive.  however, we will concentrate for the moment on deductive
 arguments, as they are often viewed as the most rigorous and convincing.
 
 it is important to note that the fact that a deductive argument is valid does
 not imply that its conclusion holds.  this is because of the slightly 
 counter-intuitive nature of implication, which we must now consider more
 carefully.
 
 obviously a valid argument can consist of true propositions.  however, an
 argument may be entirely valid even if it contains only false propositions. 
 for example:
 
    all insects have wings (premise)
    woodlice are insects (premise)
    therefore woodlice have wings (conclusion)
 
 here, the conclusion is not true because the argument's premises are false. 
 if the argument's premises were true, however, the conclusion would be true. 
 the argument is thus entirely valid.
 
 more subtly, we can reach a true conclusion from one or more false premises,
 as in:
 
    all fish live in the sea (premise)
    dolphins are fish (premise)
    therefore dolphins live in the sea (conclusion)
 
 however, the one thing we cannot do is reach a false conclusion through valid
 inference from true premises.  we can therefore draw up a "truth table" for
 implication.
 
 the symbol "=>" denotes implication; "a" is the premise, "b" the conclusion. 
 "t" and "f" represent true and false respectively.
 
 premise conclusion inference
    a        b        a=>b
 ----------------------------
    f        f         t      if the premises are false and the inference
    f        t         t      valid, the conclusion can be true or false.
 
    t        f         f      if the premises are true and the conclusion
                              false, the inference must be invalid.
 
    t        t         t      if the premises are true and the inference valid,
                              the conclusion must be true.
 
 a sound argument is a valid argument whose premises are true.  a sound 
 argument therefore arrives at a true conclusion.  be careful not to confuse
 valid arguments with sound arguments.
 
 to delve further into the structure of logical arguments would require
 lengthy discussion of linguistics and philosophy.  it is simpler and probably
 more useful to summarize the major pitfalls to be avoided when constructing
 an argument.  these pitfalls are known as fallacies.
 
 in everyday english the term "fallacy" is used to refer to mistaken beliefs
 as well as to the faulty reasoning that leads to those beliefs.  this is fair
 enough, but in logic the term is generally used to refer to a form of
 technically incorrect argument, especially if the argument appears valid or
 convincing.
 
 so for the purposes of this discussion, we define a fallacy as a logical
 argument which appears to be correct, but which can be seen to be incorrect
 when examined more closely.  by studying fallacies we aim to avoid being
 misled by them.  the following list of fallacies is not intended to be
 exhaustive.
 
 argumentum ad baculum (appeal to force)
 
 the appeal to force is committed when the arguer resorts to force or the
 threat of force in order to try and push the acceptance of a conclusion.  it
 is often used by politicians, and can be summarized as "might makes right". 
 the force threatened need not be a direct threat from the arguer.
 
 for example:
 "... thus there is ample proof of the truth of the bible.  all those who
 refuse to accept that truth will burn in hell."
 
 argumentum ad hominem
 
 argumentum ad hominem is literally "argument directed at the man".
 
 the abusive variety of argumentum ad hominem occurs when, instead of trying
 to disprove the truth of an assertion, the arguer attacks the person or
 people making the assertion.  this is invalid because the truth of an
 assertion does not depend upon the goodness of those asserting it.
 
 for example:
 "atheism is an evil philosophy.  it is practised by communists and murderers."
 
 sometimes in a court of law doubt is cast upon the testimony of a witness by 
 showing, for example, that he is a known perjurer.  this is a valid way of
 reducing the credibility of the testimony given by the witness, and not
 argumentum ad hominem; however, it does not demonstrate that the witness's
 testimony is false.  to conclude otherwise is to fall victim of the
 argumentum ad ignorantiam (see elsewhere in this list).
 
 the circumstantial form of argumentum ad hominem is committed when a person
 argues that his opponent ought to accept the truth of an assertion because of
 the opponent's particular circumstances.
 
 for example:
 "it is perfectly acceptable to kill animals for food.  how can you argue
 otherwise when you're quite happy to wear leather shoes?"
 
 this is an abusive charge of inconsistency, used as an excuse for dismissing
 the opponent's argument.
 
 this fallacy can also be used as a means of rejecting a conclusion.  for 
 example:
 
 "of course you would argue that positive discrimination is a bad thing. 
 you're white."
 
 this particular form of argumentum ad hominem, when one alleges that one's
 adversary is rationalizing a conclusion formed from selfish interests, is
 also known as "poisoning the well".
 
 argumentum ad ignorantium
 
 argumentum ad ignorantium means "argument from ignorance".  this fallacy
 occurs whenever it is argued that something must be true simply because it
 has not been proved false.  or, equivalently, when it is argued that
 something must be false because it has not been proved true.  (note that this
 is not the same as assuming that something is false until it has been proved
 true, a basic scientific principle.)
 
 examples:
 "of course the bible is true.  nobody can prove otherwise."
 
 "of course telepathy and other psychic phenomena do not exist.  nobody has
 shown any proof that they are real."
 
 note that this fallacy does not apply in a court of law, where one is
 generally assumed innocent until proven guilty.
 
 also, in scientific investigation if it is known that an event would produce
 certain evidence of its having occurred, the absence of such evidence can 
 validly be used to infer that the event did not occur.  for example:
 
 "a flood as described in the bible would require an enormous volume of water
 to be present on the earth.  the earth does not have a tenth as much water,
 even if we count that which is frozen into ice at the poles.  therefore no
 such flood occurred."
 
 in science, we can validly assume from lack of evidence that something has
 not occurred.  we cannot conclude with certainty that it has not occurred,
 however.
 
 argumentum ad misericordiam
 
 this is the appeal to pity, also known as special pleading.  the fallacy is 
 committed when the arguer appeals to pity for the sake of getting a 
 conclusion accepted.  for example:
 
 "i did not murder my mother and father with an axe.  please don't find me
 guilty; i'm suffering enough through being an orphan."
 
 argumentum ad populum
 
 this is known as appealing to the gallery, or appealing to the people.  to
 commit this fallacy is to attempt to win acceptance of an assertion by
 appealing to a large group of people.  this form of fallacy is often
 characterized by emotive language.  for example:
 
 "pornography must be banned.  it is violence against women."
 
 "the bible must be true.  millions of people know that it is.  are you trying
 to tell them that they are all mistaken fools?"
 
 argumentum ad numeram
 
 this fallacy is closely related to the argumentum ad populum.  it consists of
 asserting that the more people who support or believe a proposition, the more
 likely it is that that proposition is correct.
 
 argumentum ad verecundiam
 
 the appeal to authority uses the admiration of the famous to try and win
 support for an assertion.  for example:
 
 "isaac newton was a genius and he believed in god."
 
 this line of argument is not always completely bogus; for example, reference
 to an admitted authority in a particular field may be relevant to a
 discussion of that subject.  for example, we can distinguish quite clearly
 between:
 
 "stephen hawking has concluded that black holes give off radiation"
 and
 "john searle has concluded that it is impossible to build an intelligent
  computer"
 
 hawking is a physicist, and so we can reasonably expect his opinions on black
 hole radiation to be informed.  searle is a linguist, so it is questionable 
 whether he is well-qualified to speak on the subject of machine intelligence.
 
 the fallacy of accident
 
 the fallacy of accident is committed when a general rule is applied to a
 particular case whose "accidental" circumstances mean that the rule is
 inapplicable.  it is the error made when one goes from the general to the
 specific.  for example:
 
 "christians generally dislike atheists.  you are a christian, so you must
 dislike atheists."
 
 this fallacy is often committed by moralists and legalists who try to decide
 every moral and legal question by mechanically applying general rules.
 
 converse accident / hasty generalization
 
 this fallacy is the reverse of the fallacy of accident.  it occurs when one
 forms a general rule by examining only a few specific cases which are not
 representative of all possible cases.
 
 for example:
 "jim bakker was an insincere christian.  therefore all christians are
 insincere."
 
 sweeping generalization / dicto simpliciter
 
 a sweeping generalization occurs when a general rule is applied to a
 particular situation in which the features of that particular situation
 render the rule inapplicable.  a sweeping generalization is the opposite of a
 hasty generalization.
 
 non causa pro causa / post hoc ergo propter hoc
 
 these are known as false cause fallacies.
 
 the fallacy of non causa pro causa occurs when one identifies something as the
 cause of an event but it has not actually been shown to be the cause.  for 
 example:
 
 "i took an aspirin and prayed to god, and my headache disappeared.  so god
 cured me of the headache."
 
 the fallacy of post hoc ergo propter hoc occurs when something is assumed to
 be the cause of an event merely because it happened before the event.  for 
 example:
 
 "the soviet union collapsed after taking up atheism.  therefore we must avoid
 atheism for the same reasons."
 
 cum hoc ergo propter hoc
 
 this fallacy is similar to post hoc ergo propter hoc.  it asserts that
 because two events occur together, they must be causally related, and leaves
 no room for other factors that may be the cause(s) of the events.
 
 petitio principii
 
 this fallacy occurs when the premises are at least as questionable as the
 conclusion reached.
 
 circulus in demonstrando
 
 this fallacy occurs when one assumes as a premise the conclusion which one
 wishes to reach.  often, the proposition will be rephrased so that the
 fallacy appears to be a valid argument.  for example:
 
 "homosexuals must not be allowed to hold government office.  hence any
 government official who is revealed to be a homosexual will lose his job. 
 therefore homosexuals will do anything to hide their secret, and will be open
 to blackmail.  therefore homosexuals cannot be allowed to hold government
 office."
 
 note that the argument is entirely circular; the premise is the same as the 
 conclusion.  an argument like the above has actually been cited as the reason
 for the british secret services' official ban on homosexual employees. 
 another example is the classic:
 
 "we know that god exists because the bible tells us so.  and we know that the
 bible is true because it is the word of god."
 
 complex question / fallacy of interrogation
 
 this is the fallacy of presupposition.  one example is the classic loaded 
 question:
 
 "have you stopped beating your wife?"
 
 the question presupposes a definite answer to another question which has not
 even been asked.  this trick is often used by lawyers in cross-examination,
 when they ask questions like:
 
 "where did you hide the money you stole?"
 
 similarly, politicians often ask loaded questions such as:
 
 "how long will this ec interference in our affairs be allowed to continue?"
 or
 "does the chancellor plan two more years of ruinous privatization?"
 
 ignoratio elenchi
 
 the fallacy of irrelevant conclusion consists of claiming that an argument 
 supports a particular conclusion when it is actually logically nothing to do
 with that conclusion.
 
 for example, a christian may begin by saying that he will argue that the
 teachings of christianity are undoubtably true.  if he then argues at length
 that christianity is of great help to many people, no matter how well he
 argues he will not have shown that christian teachings are true.
 
 sadly, such fallacious arguments are often successful because they arouse
 emotions which cause others to view the supposed conclusion in a more
 favourable light.
 
 equivocation
 
 equivocation occurs when a key word is used with two or more different
 meanings in the same argument.  for example:
 
 "what could be more affordable than free software?  but to make sure that it
 remains free, that users can do what they like with it, we must place a
 license on it to make sure that will always be freely redistributable."
 
 amphiboly
 
 amphiboly occurs when the premises used in an argument are ambiguous because
 of careless or ungrammatical phrasing.
 
 accent
 
 accent is another form of fallacy through shifting meaning.  in this case,
 the meaning is changed by altering which parts of a statement are
 emphasized.  for example, consider:
 
 "we should not speak ill of our friends"
 and
 "we should not speak ill of our friends"
 
 fallacies of composition
 
 one fallacy of composition is to conclude that a property shared by the parts
 of something must apply to the whole.  for example:
 
 "the bicycle is made entirely of low mass components, and is therefore very 
 lightweight."
 
 the other fallacy of composition is to conclude that a property of a number
 of individual items is shared by a collection of those items.  for example:
 
 "a car uses less petrol and causes less pollution than a bus.  therefore cars
 are less environmentally damaging than buses."
 
 fallacy of division
 
 the fallacy of division is the opposite of the fallacy of composition.  like
 its opposite, it exists in two varieties.  the first is to assume that a
 property of some thing must apply to its parts.  for example:
 
 "you are studying at a rich college.  therefore you must be rich."
 
 the other is to assume that a property of a collection of items is shared by
 each item.  for example:
 
 "ants can destroy a tree.  therefore this ant can destroy a tree."
 
 the slippery slope argument
 
 this argument states that should one event occur, so will other harmful
 events.  there is no proof made that the harmful events are caused by the
 first event.
 
 for example:
 "if we legalize marijuana, then we would have to legalize crack and heroin
 and we'll have a nation full of drug-addicts on welfare.  therefore we cannot
 legalize marijuana."
 
 "a is based on b" fallacies / "is a type of" fallacies
 
 these fallacies occur when one attempts to argue that things are in some way
 similar without actually specifying in what way they are similar.
 
 examples:
 "isn't history based upon faith?  if so, then isn't the bible also a form of
 history?"
 
 "islam is based on faith, christianity is based on faith, so isn't islam a
 form of christianity?"
 
 "cats are a form of animal based on carbon chemistry, dogs are a form of
 animal based on carbon chemistry, so aren't dogs a form of cat?"
 
 affirmation of the consequent
 
 this fallacy is an argument of the form "a implies b, b is true, therefore a
 is true".  to understand why it is a fallacy, examine the truth table for
 implication given earlier.
 
 denial of the antecedent
 
 this fallacy is an argument of the form "a implies b, a is false, therefore b
 is false".  again, the truth table for implication makes it clear why this is
 a fallacy.
 
 note that this fallacy is different from non causa pro causa; the latter has
 the form "a implies b, a is false, therefore b is false", where a does not in
 fact imply b at all.  here, the problem is not that the implication is
 invalid; rather it is that the falseness of a does not allow us to deduce
 anything about b.
 
 converting a conditional
 
 this fallacy is an argument of the form "if a then b, therefore if b then a".
 
 argumentum ad antiquitam
 
 this is the fallacy of asserting that something is right or good simply
 because it is old, or because "that's the way it's always been."
 
 argumentum ad novitam
 
 this is the opposite of the argumentum ad antiquitam; it is the fallacy of
 asserting that something is more correct simply because it is new or newer
 than something else.
 
 argumentum ad crumenam
 
 the fallacy of believing that money is a criterion of correctness; that those
 with more money are more likely to be right.
 
 argumentum ad lazarum
 
 the fallacy of assuming that because someone is poor he or she is sounder or
 more virtuous than one who is wealthier.  this fallacy is the opposite of the
 argumentum ad crumenam.
 
 argumentum ad nauseam
 
 this is the incorrect belief that an assertion is more likely to be true the
 more often it is heard.  an "argumentum ad nauseum" is one that employs
 constant repetition in asserting something.
 
 bifurcation
 
 also referred to as the "black and white" fallacy, bifurcation occurs when
 one presents a situation as having only two alternatives, where in fact other
 alternatives exist or can exist.
 
 plurium interrogationum / many questions
 
 this fallacy occurs when a questioner demands a simple answer to a complex
 question.
 
 non sequitur
 
 a non-sequitur is an argument where the conclusion is drawn from premises
 which are not logically connected with it.
 
 red herring
 
 this fallacy is committed when irrelevant material is introduced to the issue
 being discussed, so that everyone's attention is diverted away from the
 points being made, towards a different conclusion.
 
 reification / hypostatization
 
 reification occurs when an abstract concept is treated as a concrete thing.
 
 shifting the burden of proof
 
 the burden of proof is always on the person making an assertion or
 proposition.  shifting the burden of proof, a special case of argumentum ad
 ignorantium, is the fallacy of putting the burden of proof on the person who
 denies or questions the assertion being made.  the source of the fallacy is
 the assumption that something is true unless proven otherwise.
 
 straw man
 
 the straw man fallacy is to misrepresent someone else's position so that it
 can be attacked more easily, then to knock down that misrepresented position,
 then to conclude that the original position has been demolished.  it is a
 fallacy because it fails to deal with the actual arguments that have been
 made.
 
 the extended analogy
 
 the fallacy of the extended analogy often occurs when some suggested general
 rule is being argued over.  the fallacy is to assume that mentioning two 
 different situations, in an argument about a general rule, constitutes a 
 claim that those situations are analogous to each other.
 
 this fallacy is best explained using a real example from a debate about 
 anti-cryptography legislation:
 
 "i believe it is always wrong to oppose the law by breaking it."
 
 "such a position is odious: it implies that you would not have supported
  martin luther king."
 
 "are you saying that cryptography legislation is as important as the
  struggle for black liberation?  how dare you!"
 
 tu quoque
 
 this is the famous "you too" fallacy.  it occurs when an action is argued to
 be acceptable because the other party has performed it.  for instance:
 
 "you're just being randomly abusive."
 "so?  you've been abusive too."
 
 ÿ
 