
 in article <c5r8vh.ai7@news.cso.uiuc.edu> cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb)
 writes:
 
 >i'm actually not trying to make a point.  i'm just trying to find out the
 >coherence of the societally based morality position.  is my assumption of
 >societally based morals wrong?  
 
 no, but you would need a lot of background reading in sociology to get
 to a point where the discussion would be focused enough to be helpful.
 the interaction of values and behavior among people has been a major
 defining element of both psychology and sociology for a century now, and
 is the part of both disciplines (as social psychology) that strikes me
 as most relevant to the various naive arguments about morality on the
 net.
 
 an exceptionally good place to get a clear view of "social norms" in
 action is the "micro" sociology of ervin goffman.  there are some very
 good introductory essays ("deference and demeanor" is a classic), as
 well as accessible books like _interaction ritual_.  more difficult and
 theoretical are some of his later books like _frame analysis_.  but even
 at his most academic, goffman escapes the dreadful boredom and heavily
 jargon-laden theorizing that makes most standard sociology unreadable.
 
 morality is essentially the playing out of individual goals and aims in
 the setting of their expectations of other people, and others' expectations
 of them.  this becomes "systematized" in a "socially mandated" way simply
 because otherwise we'd have to invent the entire context of interpersonal
 realtions with every single interaction -- and we engage in social inter-
 actions usually hundreds or thousands of times a day, so that a renego-
 tiation of human interaction each time is a pretty ridiculous notion.
 we simply learn it (most of it) early, along with language (which is one
 of the main exemplars.)
 --
 michael l. siemon		"stand, stand at the window
 mls@panix.com		 	    as the tears scald and start.
 mls@ulysses.att.com	 	you shall love your crooked neighbor
 -standard disclaimer- 	 	    with your crooked heart."
 