
 
   the recent rise of nostalgia in this group, combined with the
   incredible level of utter bullshit, has prompted me to comb
   through my archives and pull out some of "the best of alt.atheism"
   for your reading pleasure.  i'll post a couple of these a day
   unless group concensus demands that i stop, or i run out of good
   material.
 
   i haven't been particularly careful in the past about saving
   attributions.  i think the following comes from john a. johnson,
   but someone correct me if i'm wrong.  this is probably the longest
   of my entire collection.
 
 ________________________________________________________
 
 
                                   so that the
                                   prophecy be
                                    fulfilled
 
                                      * * *
 
        in considering the christian religion, and judging it
 according to its claims, it is important to look at its claims at
 fulfilling earlier jewish prophecy.  the scribe matthew is perhaps
 the most eager to draw out what he thinks are prophetic answers in
 the career of jesus of nazareth.  as you will see, matthew's main
 strategy is to take various old testament passages, often not even
 about the promised messiah, and apply them to the circumstances in
 the new testament.  we must also bear in mind the question of the
 authenticity of the accounts.  since the gospels were written at
 least 35 years after jesus was executed, we do not know how much
 happened exactly as stated.  but, for purposes of analysis, we
 will take particular claims at face value.
 
 immanuel:
 
        we begin, of course, at the beginning.
 
        (mt 1.21-22):  "[mary] will bear a son, and you,
        joseph, will name him 'jesus' (which means g'd is
        salvation), for he will save his people from their
        sins."  all this happened to fulfil what the lord had
        spoken by a prophet:
 
        [isaiah 7.1-16]:  in the days of ahaz (c. 750 bce),
        king of judah, rezin of syria and pekah of israel made
        war on jerusalem (capitol of judah), but could not
        quite conquer it.  when the house of david (i.e. ahaz
        and his court in judah) were told of this, ...its
        heart and the heart of its people shook...   and, the
        lord g'd said to isaiah, "go to meet with ahaz..." 
        ...and the lord spoke to ahaz (through prophet isaiah,
        naturally) saying, "ask a sign of g'd your lord.  it
        can be as deep as sheol or as high as heaven."  but,
        ahaz said, "i won't ask; i will not put the lord to a
        test."  then (isaiah) said, "hear then, o house of
        david.  is it not enough for you to weary men, that
        you must weary my god too?  therefore, the lord
        himself will give you a sign:  behold, a young woman
        is with child and will bear a son, and name him
        "immanuel," which means, "g'd is with us."   he will
        eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse evil
        and choose good.  for, before the child knows how to
        refuse evil and choose good, the land of the two kings
        you dread will have been deserted...
 
 matthew homes in on just the sentence that is in italics. 
 further, he the hebrew word "almah," (young woman), as
 specifically, "virgin."  but, this is not a prophecy about the
 messiah.  it is not a prophecy about an event to happen 750 years
 later.  it is not a prophecy about a virgin (bethulah) mother.  in
 short, it not about jesus.  matthew has made use of a verse out of
 context, and tries to make it fit the specific case of mary.  it
 should be noted that if we want to read the prophecy in a general
 manner, a very general one, it can be made to fit mary.  mary,
 virgin or not, was indeed a young woman with child.  of course,
 the fit is shady and has problems.  jesus, while thought of by
 later christians to be g'd walking among men, was never called by
 the name, immanuel.  if christianity wished to claim this prophecy
 for jesus, it becomes at best a cut-and-paste prophecy... a second
 class prophecy.   not too convincing.
 
 egypt:
 
        after jesus's birth in bethlehem, matthew tells about a
 quick (and elsewhere unmentioned) excursion to egypt, as if he
 wishes to liken jesus to moses.  this was done to escape an
 alleged infanticidal rampage of the king, herod.
 
        [mt 2.15]  ...and remained there until the death of
        herod.  this was to fulfil what the lord had spoken:
        "out of egypt i have cal-led my son."
 
 
 what the lord really said was this.
 
        [hosea 11.1]  when israel was a child, i loved him. 
        and, out of egypt i called my son.  the more i called
        them (my people), the more they went from me; they
        kept sacrificing to the ba'als, and kept burning
        incense to idols.
 
 matthew conveniently omits the rest of hosea's oracle.  but, it
 was indeed israel that, once called out of egypt, wanted to
 return.  this is history.  jesus is certainly not being spoken of
 here.  and, if we are to draw some kind of parallel here, we wind
 up with a jesus that flees and resists g'd.   again, this prophecy
 is just not as convincing as matthew probably had hoped.
 
 rachel weeps:
 
         while jesus is off vacationing in egypt, matthew says that
 king herod sought to kill him, and thus ordered the executions of
 all young male children.  matthew then writes,
 
        [mt 2.17-18]   by this, that which was spoken by the
        prophet jeremiah was fulfilled:
 
        "a voice was heard in ramah, wailing and loud
        lamentation-- rachel weeping for her children;
        she refused to be consoled, because they were
        no more."   
 
 the reference is to a passage in jeremiah 31.15, referring to the
 carrying off of israel into exile by sargon (of assyria) in 722
 bce.  rachel, the ancestor of the major tribes of israel, ephraim,
 and manasseh, is said to weep for her descendants who are "no
 more."  it is metaphorical, of course, since rachel lived and dies
 before the hebrews were even in the egyptian exile.
        it is interesting to note that it was leah, not rachel, who
 was the ancestor of the judeans (the land where jesus and
 bethlehem were).  if anyone should do weeping for her "children,"
 it is leah.  the only connexion that rachel has with bethlehem is
 that the legends have it that she was buried north of the city,
 "on the way to ephrath, (bethlehem)."
        as for herod and his infanticide, it is rather unlikely
 that such an event actually occurred.  one never knows, but the
 event is not mentioned or alluded to anywhere else in the bible,
 nor is it mentioned in any of the secular records of the time. 
 herod was particularly unliked in his reign, and many far less
 evil deeds of herod were carefully recorded.  this might be a
 prime example of how events were added to jesus's life to enhance
 the message of the church's gospel.
        because of the whole story's similarity to the tale of the
 infant moses in egypt, it is highly likely that it is a device set
 up by matthew to add prophetic, yet artificial, approval of jesus.
 it is not surprising that matthew conveniently neglects to mention
 the rest of the jeremiah quote.   the "children" the prophet
 speaks of are not dead, but exiled in the assyrian empire.  g'd
 comforts the weeping rachel, saying that the children will be
 returned-- he will gather them back together.  of course, this
 would not suit matthew's purpose, as the children he speaks of are
 dead for good.  again, the "prophecy" matthew sets up is not even
 that, and to anyone who bothers to check it out, is not too
 convincing.
 
 the nazarene:
 
        we do not even have to go to the next chapter to find
 another matthean prophecy.  after leaving egypt, joseph & wife
 take the infant jesus to live in the city of nazareth, 
 
        [mt 2.23]  ...that what was spoken of by the prophets
        might be fulfilled, "he shall be called a nazarene."
 
 first thing we notice is that matthew does not mention the name of
 the prophet(s) this time.  second, we have to ask who "he" is. 
 there are no messianic prophecies speaking of a nazarene.  worse,
 there are no prophecies, period, mentioning a nazarene.  still
 worse, there are no nazarenes mentioned in the old testament at
 all.  in the book of judges, an angel tells samson's mother that
 she will,
 
        [judges 13.5]  "...conceive and bear a son.  no razor
        shall tough his head, for he will be a nazirite to his
        god from the day of his birth.  he will deliver israel
        from the hands of the philistines."
 
 this is of course not a prophecy of jesus, or the messiah of g'd. 
 but, it is the best that can be found.  obviously, matthew has
 begun to go overboard in cut-and-paste prophecies, in that he is
 simple making them up now.
 
 bearing our
 diseases:
 
        jesus next goes around healing people of physical illnesses
 and disabilities.
 
        [mt 8.17]   this was to fulfil what was spoken by the
        prophet isaiah, "he took our infirmities and bore our
        diseases."
 
 as expected, the verse quoted in isaiah is quoted out of context,
 and a few words are skewed to fit the christian scheme.  we have,
 
        [is 53.4]  surely he, [the suffering servant], has
        borne our sickness, and carried our pains.
 
 from a reading of the surrounding passages in isaiah, we know that
 the prophet is speaking in present tense of the collective nation
 of israel, jehovah's chosen servant and people.  he speaks to the
 israelites suffering in exile, in the voice of the gentile nations
 that look upon it.  this image is deeply ingrained in jewish
 identity --an image of a chastised, yet cherished, israel as the
 instrument of the nations' salvation by g'd.
       the verses speak of israel taking on the sicknesses which
 are the literal and metaphorical manifestations of guilt and
 discipline.  they do not speak of a "servant" going around and
 healing people.  notice that the servant in isaiah takes on the
 sicknesses and pains of the nations (and individual jews).  jesus,
 as we all know, did not take the diseases onto himself.  the
 verses here in isaiah are not a prophecy of something to come, but
 rather something that had already happened.  while it is believed
 that jesus took on the eternal punishment of hell, he did not bear
 the illnesses he healed.  so, while someone might want to say
 that, figuratively, jesus reenacted the deeds of israel in his
 spiritual atonement, he has to admit that matthew's parallel
 misses where he intended it to have its effect.
 
 
 silent messiah:
 
       upon healing multitudes of commoners, it is said that jesus
 ordered them to keep quiet, presumable so that he wouldn't arouse
 the attention of the local rulers.
 
        [mt 12.15-21]  this was to fulfill what was spoken by
        the prophet isaiah.   
 
        "behold my servant whom i have chosen, my beloved,
        with whom my soul is pleased.  i will put my spirit on
        him, and he will announce justice to the gentiles.  he
        will not wrangle or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear
        his voice in the streets.  he will not break a bruised
        reed or quench a smoldering wick until he brings
        justice to victory, and the gentiles will hope in his
        name."
 
 the isaiah passage quoted reads,
 
        [is 42.1-4]  behold my servant whom i uphold, my
        chosen, in whom my soul delights.  i have put my
        spirit on him, and he will bring forth justice to the
        nations.  we will not cry or lift up his voice, or
        make it heard in the street.  he will not break a
        bruised reed, or quench a smoldering wick.  he will
        faithfully bring forth justice.  he will not fail
        (burn dimly) or be discouraged (bruised) until he has
        established justice in the earth.  and the coastlands
        await his law.
 
 you see, matthew has conveniently left out part of the passage,
 because it does not suit the dealings of jesus.  christians could
 never think of jesus failing, never would the "light" of mankind
 burn dimly.  but, the servant nation of israel will indeed come to
 an end when its job is done.  when the gentiles come to embrace
 g'd there will no longer be a chosen people, but rather all will
 be the children of g'd.  also, the ending phrase has been changed
 from the judaic "...the coastlands await his law." to the
 christologic, "the gentiles will hope in his name."   while the
 original proclaims the torah law of jehovah, the other rewrites it
 to fit its strange doctrine of "believing in the name."  if one
 has any doubt the servant referred to is not jesus, one has only
 to read the whole chapter, isaiah 42, and hear about the beloved
 but blind and imperfect servant, "a people robbed and
 plundered..."   so, we see that when matthew's attempt at
 "prophecy" is examined, it crumbles.
 
 three days and
 three nights:
 
       now we come upon a prophecy supposedly uttered by the very
 mouth of the god jesus himself.  he speaks of his crucifixion and
 resurrection.
 
        [mt 12.40]   for as jonah was in the belly of the
        whale for three days and three nights, so will the son
        of man be in the heart of the earth three days and
        three nights.
 
 before any further discussion can occur, it is necessary to know
 how the jews understood days.  as far as day names went, each was
 24 hours long, lasting from sunset 6pm to the following sunset
 6pm.  what was referred to as a "day" was the period of light from
 6am to the ending sunset at 6pm.  thus, according to our time
 scale, a sabbath day began at 6pm friday evening, and lasted until
 6pm saturday evening.  this is why the jews celebrate their
 sabbath on the daylight portion of saturdays, instead of sundays. 
 (it seems like a real miracle that christians didn't forget that
 saturday was indeed the seventh and last day of the week!)  thus,
 when days and nights are referred to together, 12 hour daylight
 portions and 12 hour night periods are being spoken of.  thus,
 jesus says that he will be in the grave, or in hell, or otherwise
 unresurrected for three days and three nights.
 
       as the good book tells us, jesus was crucified on the "ninth
 hour," which is 3pm, friday afternoon.  he then was put into the
 grave sometime after that.  then, jesus left the grave, "rose,"
 before dawn of what we call sunday (the dawn after the sabbath was
 over).  what this means is that jesus was, using our time for
 clarity, in the grave from 6pm friday night to some time before
 6am sunday morning.  we could also add a little time before 6pm
 friday, since the bible is not specific here.  what this means
 using jewish time is that he was in the grave for one day, two
 nights, and possibly a couple of hours of one day.  certainly this
 is a problem for jesus prediction.  there is absolutely no way we
 are even able to have his death involve three days and three
 nights --even using modern time measurements.   we then are led to
 suspect that this error is another one of matthew's little
 mistakes, and that the gospel writer put false words into his
 god's mouth.   and no matter who made the prediction, it is more
 than unconvincing... it is counter-convincing.
 
 hearing &
 understanding:
 
      jesus tool on a habit of speaking to his vast audiences in
 parables-- stories in which a deeper meaning could be found, if
 you were already one of the elect, those chosen to understand the
 message of jesus.  he reasons that those who can understand the
 parables are the ones he wants.  if the people cannot understand
 them, there is no need to bother with them, since they will not
 accept the "plain" message any better.  matthew says,
 
        [mt 13.14-16]  with them [the audience] indeed in
        fulfilled the prophecy of isaiah which says, 
 
        "you will indeed hear but never understand; and you
        will indeed see, but never perceive.  because this
        people's heart has grown dull, their ears are heavy of
        hearing, and they have shut their eyes so the they
        would not perceive with them, her with their ears, and
        understand with their heart, and turn for me to heal
        them."
 
 the original isaiah passages are part of his earlier works, his
 call to the ministry.  this is in 740 bce, when israel is
 flourishing, right before it falls under the authority of assyria. 
 isaiah sees the good times ending, and also a vision from g'd,
 calling him to bring reform to israel and judah.
 
        [is 6.9-13]  and g'd said, "go, and say to this
        people, `hear and hear, but do not understand; see and
        see, but do not perceive.'   make the heart of this
        people fat, make their ears heavy, and shut their
        eyes, so they will not see with their eyes, or hear
        with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and
        turn and be healed."  then isaiah said, "how long,
        lord?"  and he said, "until the cities lie waste
        without inhabitant, and houses without men, and the
        land is utterly desolate, and the g'ds take men far
        away, and forsaken places are many in the land.  and
        though a tenth will remain in it, it will be burned
        again, like a terebinth or an oak whose stump still
        stands when the tree is felled." the holy seed is its
        stump.
 
 here we see that it is really g'd who causes the people of israel
 to stop listening to the prophet's warnings, but reaffirms the
 promise made to solomon's (and david's) seed/lineage.  if you read
 the rest of isaiah, you find that this is done to fulfil the plan
 of g'd to use israel as a servant, a light to the nations.  (look
 at isaiah 42.18-25, 48.20, 49.3)
      we see that matthew has cut-and-pasted just a little portion
 of isaiah's verse, to suit his own gospel needs.  more than that,
 he has altered the words, to make it fit the people who didn't
 understand jesus's stories.  and, as we see, isaiah's verses are
 not prophecies, but rather commands from g'd to him, in the
 present.   once again, matthew's prophecy falls flat on its face. 
 
      matthew tries again to make jesus's parables look like they
 have the prophetic approval.
 
        [mt 13.35]  ...he said nothing to them without a
        parable.  this was to fulfil what was spoken of by the
        prophet, "i will open my mouth to them in parables.  i
        will utter that which has been hidden since the
        foundation of the world."
 
 matthew really botches up here.  he attempts to quote not from a
 prophet, but from the psalms.
 
        [ps 78.2-4]  i will open my mouth in parable.  i will
        utter dark sayings of old, things that we all have
        heard and known, things that our fathers have told us. 
        we will not hide them from their children, but tell to
        the coming generation the glorious deeds of the
        lord...
 
 as was pointed out, the verses in the psalms do not really come
 from a prophet.  you might also want to know that earlier copies
 of matthew's gospel even inserted isaiah's name as this prophet. 
 apparently, later scribes caught the error and tried to cover some
 of it up.
      perhaps the most significant part of this is that, once
 again, matthew has altered the old testament scriptures.  as jesus
 has said earlier, he speaks in parables so that some will not
 understand them.  the parables in the psalms are not to be hidden. 
 further, they speak of things "known, that our fathers have told
 us."  jesus deals with things "hidden since the foundation of the
 world."  indeed jesus dealt in a lot of secrecy and confusion. 
 this is in direct opposition to the parables in the psalms.  no
 wonder matthew had to rewrite them!   and still once again,
 matthew's artificial prophecies fall flat on their face.  but,
 christians rarely look at this.  matthew's prophecies aren't the
 only things about christianity that are beginning to look bad.
 
 
 excuses of
 little faith:
 
        in mt. 17.14-21, we see that the disciples are able to go
 around casting out demons, except in one case.  not knowing what
 epilepsy was, the people thought those with the disease were
 possesed with demons.  it is no wonder that the disciples were
 unable to "dispossess" the epileptic.  but, jesus, perhaps no more
 enlightened than they, is reported to have rebuked them, saying
 they didn't have enough faith.   this seems strange.  why was this
 demon special?  it seems that either a true believer has faith or
 he does not.  apparently, enough faith will allow someone to move
 mountains.  of course, you will find no one, these days that can
 move real mountains.  no one parts seas.  the only miracles the
 charismatics can speak of are those rumoured to happen on trips to
 mexico or some faraway place.  major miracles are making some old
 woman's arthritis feel better on sunday morning t.v.
 
        and the gods, including jesus, are always shrouded in
 ancient lore and writings, protected from the skeptics in their
 sacred pasts.  they are either dead, sleeping, or hiding in
 heaven, with people rumouring about their imminent return and
 their great miracles of days long gone.  yet, life goes on.  
 
      tales of mystics, stories of miracles-- all in a distant time
 or a distant place.  gods used to reveal themselves to men in the
 old days, jehovah too.  but, now they are silent.  all the
 theologians give are various excuses as to why we don't get to see
 god anymore.
 
        we're too lazy; we're not zealous enough; we're
        sinful; it's just his "plan"; we put too many of our
        own demands on g'd's appearance; if we had the right
        faith, if we  were willing to meet g'd on his terms...
 
      yet, even the most pious of men have not seen g'd.  you, dear
 reader, have not seen g'd.  not literally, you know that to be
 true. (i know that's presumptuous and bold.  but, searching your
 heart, you know what i mean.)  all that we've seen religions do is
 make people feel good and content about not seeing g'd.  they say
 our little faith does not merit us to see g'd.  sometimes, they
 say, "see the love in these people you worship with... see the
 lives of people change... that is seeing g'd."   thus people get
 lulled to sleep, satisfied with turning g'd into the everyday
 sights.   but, that is not seeing g'd as i am speaking of... it is
 not seeing g'd the way people used to see.  
       what we see in the world that is good, is the compassion of
 human hearts, the love given and taken by men and women, the
 forgiveness practised by christian & atheist alike, beauty created
 by the mind of man.  these are the things that are done; these are
 what we see.  but, it is said this is so only because everybody
 has little faith.
 
 jesus rides on
 an ass:
 
        shortly after accepting the role of the jewish messiah
 king, jesus requests a donkey be brought in for him to ride into
 jerusalem.  
 
        [mt 21.5]  this took place to fulfil what was spoken
        by the prophet, saying,
 
        tell the daughter of zion, "behold, your king is
        coming to you, humble, mounted on an ass, and on a
        ass-colt."
 
 of course, the passage quoted from zechariah 9.9 reads a little
 differently.
 
        lo, your king comes to you; he is triumphant and
        victorious, humble, and riding on an ass, on an ass-
        colt... he will command peace to the nations.
 
 there isn't all that much difference here, except that zechariah
 only involves one animal  --an ass-colt--  while matthew reads the
 poetic wording slightly differently.  thus, he has jesus call for
 both a colt and an adult ass.  from matthew's version, we get a
 comical picture of the divine christ sweating it to straddle two
 donkeys.  this could inevitably lead to a theological,
 proctological dilemma!   we find that in the account written
 earlier by st. mark, only the colt was called for and brought to
 jesus.  this indeed fits the verses of zechariah properly, and
 shows us that in matthew attempt to use prophetic verses, he has
 bungled.  now, excluding many respectable christians i have met, i
 have noticed that while christ is thought to have ridden on asses,
 the situation is often reversed nowadays...
 
        then, entering the jerusalem temple, the priests were
 angered at people and youngsters calling jesus the messiah.  but,
 jesus replied as we might expect matthew to have done,
 
        [mt 21.16]  haven't you read?  `out of the mouth of
        babes and sucklings thou has brought perfect praise.'
 
 it is more likely that matthew made this response up since jesus
 was never one to point out such little "prophetic" things and
 since, as we might expect, the quote is in error, which seems to
 fit matthew's track record quite well.  we might ask jesus or
 matthew, "haven't you read?" for the source reads,
 
        [psalms 8.1-2]  o yahweh our lord, how majestic is
        your name in the whole world!   you, whose glory is
        chanted above the heavens by babes and infants, you
        have founded a bulwark against your foes to still the
        enemy and the avenger.
 
 the passages hardly need comment.  there is no "perfect praise"
 spoken of in the psalm, and what praise is there is given to g'd,
 not his messiah king, and not jesus.  as mentioned, it seems to be
 just one more case of matthew's pen making up convenient prophetic
 scripture.
 
 yhvh said to 
 my lord...:
 
       jesus is said to have asked from whom the promised jewish
 messiah-king is to be descended.  the jews agree-- it is king
 david.  but, then jesus counters by quoting psalms 110,
 
        "the lord said to my lord, sit at my right hand, until
        i put your enemies under your feet."
 
 taken at face value, jesus is denying the necessity of davidic
 descent.  one assumes he is in opposition to their answer.  of
 course, the christian answer is that he agrees, but is trying to
 make some hidden point, to reveal some mystery about the divine
 nature of the messiah-king.  it's tempting to believe this, if one
 is a christian and not interested in matters of investigation. 
 but, there are problems.
        in jesus's time, the psalm was thought to be about the
 messiah.  and, it is easy to see why david might refer to the
 messiah as his superior.  we need only look at the scriptures
 about the messiah to see that he is expected to be a great king,
 bringing the jews to times even better than those under david's
 rule.  of course, the jews listening had no good answer, and the
 passage could indeed refer to a divine messiah, such as the
 christians worship.  the problem lies in the meaning of this
 psalm, an error that apparently several jews of jesus's time had
 also made.  one must remember that there were various factions
 among the jews, often as a result of different expectations of the
 messiah-king.  jesus was apparently one of these adventists, like
 his audience, who thought the messiah's advent was imminent, and
 who interpreted psalms 110, among others, as being messianic.
 what is the problem, then?  psalm 110 literally reads,
 
        yhvh's utterance to my lord:
 	"sit at my right hand, until i make your enemies your
        footstool."
 
        yhvh sends forth your mighty scepter from zion.  rule
        in the midst of your foes!  your people will offer
        themselves freely on the day you lead your host on the
        holy mountains.  
 
        "you are a priest of the order of melchizedek
        forever."
 
 the word "lord" is often mistakenly capitalised by christian
 bibles to denote divinity in this lord.  but, in the hebrew, the
 word is "adoni," and no capitalisation exists.  adoni simply means
 "lord," a generic term as we would use it.  it is used often in
 the scriptures to refer to kings and to g'd.  it is merely an
 address of respect.  
       there is nothing in the text itself to imply that the word
 refers either to divinity or to the messiah-king.  that this is
 supposed to be written by david is not certain.  the title of the
 psalm translates to either "a psalm of david," or "a psalm about
 david."  it seems fitting to assume it to be written by a court
 poet, about david's covenant and endorsement from g'd.  if the
 psalm had been written by david, it is unlikely that he would be
 talking about the messiah.  the idea of a perfect king, descended
 from david, was not present in david's age.  we have extensive
 tales of david's doings and sayings-- none of which include any
 praises of a messiah.
      many of the psalms show evidence of being written long after
 david was dead, in times of the exile when g'd had put his show of
 favour for david's kingdom on hold.  
      the description in the psalm fit david very well.  david was
 promised by g'd a rise to power, victory over his enemies,
 successful judgement among the nations he conquered.  he achieved
 the priesthood common to melchizedek in being a righteous king,
 enabled to bless the people.   it all fits.
       we do not have to blame this problem on matthew alone,
 though.  here, there is not artificial prophecy alluded to, though
 his use of the scripture is rather questionable.  still, this
 event is common to the other gospels too.  so, we let matthew off
 a little more easily this time.  it is interesting to note,
 though, how matthew dresses up the event.  the earlier gospel of
 mark tells the tale with jesus simply speaking to a crowd. 
 matthew has the pharisees, who became the religious competition of
 an infant christianity, be the target of jesus's question.  as we
 might expect, matthew writes that the event ends up by
 embarrassing the pharisees.  such power is the pen.
 
 moses & jesus,
 had it together
 all along...:
 
        we leave the gospel story of matthew momentarily to see a
 pseudo-prophecy in john's gospel.  the gospel story of john
 deserves special treatment, because it seems to be so far removed
 from the real events of jesus's career as told by even matthew. 
 but, for the moment, we will just look at one verse.  the early
 church leaders founded a religion on the jewish hopes of a messiah
 king, and on an artificial extension of the original promises made
 by g'd.  when constructing the history of abraham, moses wrote of
 a promise of land and nationhood to the jewish people.  while this
 was accomplished eventually, under the rule of king david, the
 christians who came along later decided that they would claim the
 fulfillment of the promise.  but, to do so, they expanded on the
 promise, preaching about a heavenly kingdom.
 
        [john 8.56] (j.c. speaking) your father, abraham,
        rejoiced to see my day.  he say it and was glad.
 
 it would be nice to tie in approval for jesus from abraham, but,
 abraham knew nothing of jesus or a messiah, or anything christian. 
 i have tried, and failed to find any event in the old testament
 which corresponds to john's little prophecy.  it is par for the
 course to see st. john making up old testament backings, just like
 his forerunner matthew.  many christians know that their faith has
 many of its foundations in such fraud, and it is surprising they
 still cling to it.
 
 the potter's
 field:
 
       we are told that jesus was betrayed while in jerusalem by
 one of his followers, judas iscariot.   matthew writes,
 
        [mt 27.5-10]  and throwing down the pieces of silver
        in the temple, [judas] departed... but, the chief
        priests, taking the silver, said, "it isn't lawful for
        us to put it in the treasury, since it is blood
        money."  so they... bought a potter's field with it to
        bury strangers in... then was fulfilled what was
        spoken by the prophet jeremiah,
 
        "and they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price
        of him on whom a price had been set by some of the
        sons of israel, and they gave them for the potter's
        field, as the lord directed me."
 
 this prophecy is an utterly gross bastardisation of old testament
 scripture.  first, matthew has made a mistake regarding the name
 of the prophet.  it is zechariah who utters the verses which
 matthew makes use of.
 
        [zech. 11.12-13]  ...and they weighed out my wages,
        thirty shekels of silver.  then yhvh said to me, "cast
        them to the treasury," --the lordly price at which i
        was paid off by them.  so i took the thirty shekels of
        silver and cast them into the treasury in the house of
        yhvh.
 
 first of all, the verses of zechariah do not deal with a betrayer
 of the messiah, or of g'd.  the deal with a shepherd, most likely
 a priest, chosen to serve a function of presiding over the people
 shortly before g'd would send judah and israel into conflict with
 one another.  the word, "treasury," had been replaced by the king
 james scholars with "to the potter," precisely because this made
 matthew's quote fit better.  but, this is a blatant error.  the
 correct translation of the hebrew is indeed "treasury," which also
 makes perfect sense in zechariah's context, whereas "potter's
 field" is totally unrelated.  whether the mistranslation was
 intentional or not seems to be beyond speculation.  however, given
 matthew's track record, one finds it hard to resist the notion of
 intentional dishonesty.
       of course, matthew would have ample reason for altering the
 text.  the thirty pieces of silver match judas's situation, and if
 as most christians seem to be, the reader is willing to disregard
 the contextual incongruity, matthew might have another prophecy to
 toss around.  however, the correct translation of zechariah
 directly contradicts the situation with judas and the high
 priests.  the high priests would not put the money in the
 treasury.  the worthless shepherd of zechariah does exactly the
 opposite!  of course, to the average thursday-night bible student,
 the "prophecy" as presented by matthew would be taken at new
 testament face value.  to those, matthew's work is convincing
 enough.
 
 wine, vinegar,
 & casting lots:
 
       then, jesus is led away to be crucified.
 
        [mt 27.34-35]  ...they gave him vinegar to drink,
        mingled with gall; but when he tasted it, he would not
        drink it.  and, when they had crucified him, they
        divided his garments among them by casting lots: that
        it might be fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet,
 
        "they parted my garments among them, and upon my
        vesture did they cast lots."
 
 first of all, the vinegar offered to jesus is actually common sour
 wine, of the type that roman soldiers drank regularly.  we find
 that right before jesus dies, the soldiers themselves give him
 some to drink --not polluted with gall.
 
        [jn 19.28-30]  jesus... said, "i thirst."  a bowl of
        vinegar stood there, so they put a sponge full of the
        vinegar on hyssop and held it to his mouth.  when he
        had received the vinegar, he said, "it is finished;"
 
 but, matthew seems to be drawing on, not a passage from the
 prophets, but one from the psalms.
 
        [ps 69.20-28]  i looked for pity, but there was none;
        and for comforters, but i found none.  they gave me
        poison for food (lit. they put gall in my meat), and
        for my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink...  add
        to them punishment upon punishment, may they have no
        acquittal from thee.  let them be blotted out of the
        book of the living.
 
 of course, the sour wine offered to jesus is done at his request
 of drink.  this does indeed seem to be a show of pity.  the psalm
 quoted is about david and his political and military enemies.  it
 is not about the messiah or jesus.  it is then not surprising that
 we run into further problem when we see that the "jesus" in the
 psalm asks g'd for the damnation of the "crucifiers," whereas the
 jesus of the gospels says,
 
        [lk 23.34]  jesus said, "father, forgive them, the
        don't know what they do!"
 
 further, matthew misses with his attempt to create prophecy by
 having gall (a bitter substance) put into jesus's drink, not his
 meat, as the psalm stipulates.
 
        with the "prophecy" of the vinegar faulty, we naturally
 ask, "what of the casting of lots?"  this brings up the 22nd
 psalm, which deserves discussion all by itself.  suffice it now to
 say that the fact that jesus's clothes were divided as told is no
 great thing.  it turns out that this happened often to any felon
 in those days.  as we will soon see, it is perhaps the least
 erroneous passage of the psalm when applied to jesus.  it does
 indeed bring up the interesting question as to the quality of
 jesus's clothes.  for a man so removed from worldly possessions,
 his ownership of clothes worthy of casting lots raises some
 suspicions.
 
 the 22nd psalm:
 
       this psalm is attributed to david, as a lament of his
 condition under the attack of his enemies.  it becomes a song of
 praise to yhvh and of hope.  taken out of context, parts of it
 seem to fit the plight of jesus at the crucifixion quite well.  we
 will examine the primary passages.
 
        verse 1-2:  my god, my god! why have you forsaken me?! 
        why are you so far from helping me, far from the words
        of my groaning?  oh, my god, i cry by day, but you
        don't answer, and by night, but find no rest.
 
 jesus is said to have cried the first sentence while on the cross. 
 this suggests that the whole psalm is really about jesus, rather
 than king david.  of course, the rest of the first stanza does not
 fit as nicely to jesus or his execution.  jesus is not pictured as
 complaining about the whole ordeal, he is supposed to be like "the
 lamb led mute before its shearers."  indeed, jesus doesn't do much
 groaning, even when on the cross.  he certainly does not cry by
 both day and night on the cross.
 
        6-8:  but, i am a worm, and no man-- scorned by men... 
        all who see me mock at me.  they make faces and wag
        their heads;  "he committed his cause to yhvh.  so let
        him deliver him... for he delights in him."
 
 this seems to fit jesus's execution pretty well, with the
 exception of the holy messiah being called a worm.
 
        12-13:  many bulls encompass me... they open their
        mouths widely at me like a ravening and roaring lion.
 
        16-18:  yea, dogs are round about me, a company of
        evildoers encir-cle me, they have pierced my hands and
        feet.  i can see all my bones... they divide my
        garments among them, and cast lost for my raiment.
 
        19-21:  but you, yhvh, be not far away!  ...deliver my
        soul from the sword, my life from the power of the
        dog!  save me from the mouth of the lion, and my
        afflicted soul from the horns of the wild bull!
 
 it would seem quite convincing, and i'm sure the early christian
 fathers who wrote of this prophecy thought so too.  unfortunately,
 this prophecy has a fatal flaw.  the words "have pierced" really
 do not exist in the psalm.  the correct hebrew translation is,
 
        16:  yea, dogs are round about me, a company of
        evildoers encircles me, like the lion, they are at my
        hands and feet...
 
 in hebrew the phrase "like the lion" and a very rare verb form
 which can mean "pierced" differ by one phonetic character.  the
 word in the hebrew text is literally, "like the lion" (ka'ari),
 which makes sense in the context, and even further fits the animal
 imagery employed by the psalm writer.  it is convenience that
 would urge a christian to change the word to "ka'aru."   but, to
 add the needed (yet artificial) weight to the "prophecy" this is
 just what the christian translators have chosen to do.  while the
 correct translation does not eliminate the psalm from referring to
 jesus, its absence does not say much for the honesty of the
 translators.
 
        apart from the erroneous verse 16, the psalm does not lend
 itself to jesus so easily.  verse 20 speaks of the sufferer being
 saved from a sword rather than a cross.  this naturally fits the
 psalm's true subject, king david.  as a side note, we now know
 that crucifixions did not pierce the hands, the palms, but rather
 the forearms.  this doesn't say much in favour of the traditional
 thought of a resurrected jesus showing his disciples the scars on
 his palms.  but then, facts aren't bound by our religious beliefs.
 
       matthew escapes culpability this time, as he does not
 attempt to draw many direct links between this psalm and his lord
 jesus.  but the psalm, like many others, was on the minds of all
 the gospel writers when they compiled the stories and
 interpretations of jesus's life and death.  how much these
 scriptures may have contributed to what actually got written down
 is a question that has serious repercussions for christian
 theology.  it is easy to see, for those who are not faithful
 fundamentalists, how some of the events in the new testament might
 have been "enhanced" by scribes such as the eager matthew.  but,
 it does less to speculate than to simply investigate scriptural
 matters and prophetic claims.  so far, this has not said good
 things for st. matthew.
 
 the reference to the piercing looks a lot like jesus's
 crucifixion.  john's gospel recount, written about 70 years after
 the fact, tells us at jesus's execution,
 
        [jn 19.34,37]  but one of the soldiers pierced his
        side with a spear, and out came blood and water...
        these things took place that scripture be fulfilled...
        "the will look on him whom they've pierced."
 
 of course, this is built on a passage taken blatantly out of
 context.   prophet zechariah tells us how much of the nation of
 israel will split off from jerusalem and judah and go to war with
 them.
 
        [zc 12.7-10]  and yhvh will give victory to judah...
        and on that day, i will seek to destroy the nations
        that come against jerusalem (in judah).  and i will
        pour a spirit of compassion and supplication... on
        jerusalem so that when they look on him who they have
        pierced, they will mourn, and weep bitterly over him
        like you weep over a firstborn child.
 
 john's attempt to make up prophecy is perhaps weaker that
 matthew's attempts.  matthew, at least, usually excontexts more
 than just one passage.  john's errors are grossly obvious and
 blatant here.  it does not speak well for any of the gospel
 writers, as it helps to show how the prophetic aspects of their
 religion were founded.
 
 
 reckoned with
 transgressors:
 
        after his arrest, jesus is quickly executed for claiming
 the jewish kingship, messiahship.   according to one version of
 the gospel tale, jesus gets executed along with two thieves.
 
        [mk 15.27]  and with him they crucified two robbers,
        one on his right, one on his left.  and so the
        scripture was fulfilled which says,
 
        "he was reckoned with the transgressors."
 
 here, mark is trying to link jesus to a passage in isaiah 53,
 about the servant nation of israel.  the passage is not about the
 messiah, for if one reads the whole chapter of isaiah 53, and its
 surrounding chapters, one sees that the servant is a nation.  the
 verses are also about what this servant has gone through in the
 past, not a prediction of what is to come, in any event.  the
 servant is thought of as a criminal.  this also happens to fit the
 description of jesus.  had the passage really been about the
 messiah, it still is not at all clear why executing jesus between
 two thieves would fulfill the "prophecy" in isaiah.  jesus would
 more fittingly fulfill it with his whole ministry.  he was
 considered a blasphemer and troublemaker all throughout his
 career.   locking onto a single event is a rather poor way to
 steal prophecy, at least in this case, as we see that mark could
 have had made a better analogy with general comparisons.
 
        mark goes on to tell us how "those who were crucified with
 [jesus] also reviled him." [15.32]  this is to be expected from a
 couple of robbers.  of course in his later recount, st. luke
 decides to change some things.  luke tells us,
 
        [lk 23.39-43]  and one of the criminals who was hanged
        with him railed, "aren't you the messiah?! save
        yourself, and us!"
 
 this certainly fits with mark's recount, which tells how the
 people who crucified jesus said, "save yourself!" and that the
 robbers did the same.  but then luke goes on,
 
        but the other [criminal] rebuked [the first] saying,
        "don't you fear g'd, since you are under the same
        sentence of condemnation?  and we, indeed justly so,
        for we are receiving the due reward for our deeds. 
        but, this man has done nothing wrong. and he said,
        "jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom." 
        and jesus answered, "verily i say to you, today you
        will be with me in paradise."
 
 now, this little dialogue seems highly contrived.  it stretches
 the imagination a bit to see this picture of one ruffian rebuking
 his fellow criminal with such eloquent speech.  we have a rather
 strange picture of a criminal lamenting over the goodness of his
 punishment and the justness of his suffering.   such a man,
 apparently noble and of principle, doesn't seem likely to have
 been a robber.  we wonder at the amount of theatrics created by
 luke.  of course, luke's recount also disagrees with mark's.  
 luke has only one criminal revile jesus, not both.  it is easy
 enough to discount the discrepancy because the account was made
 up, but those who wish to believe it is all part of the error free
 words of g'd do not have this avenue open.  this is yet another
 example of a writer trying to take an old testament passage and
 expand it and reinterpret it to suit his theology.  in this case,
 the embroidery creates some embarrassing problems, as we have
 seen.
 
 the end of the
 world--
        mt. 24:
 
        now comes perhaps one of the most extraordinary and
 embarrassing passages in the new testament.  it is found in all
 three of the synoptic gospel stories, and casts some of the most
 unfavourable doubt on the whole theory of christianity.  jesus
 mentions the destruction of the jewish temples and buildings, and
 his disciples ask him about this, and about the end of the world
 which he has been warning about.
 
        the disciples: tell us, when will this [the temple's
        destruction] be, and what will be the sign of your
        coming, and of the close of the age?
 
        jesus: take care that no one leads you astray, for
        many will come in my name, saying, "i am the christ."  
        ...you will hear of wars and rumours of wars... for
        this must take place, but the end is not yet.   for,
        nation will rise against nation... all this is but the
        beginning of the birthpangs.
              they will deliver you up... put you to death,
        and false prophets will arise and lead many astray.
        ...but he who endures to the end will be saved.  this
        gospel will be preached throughout the whole world, a
        testimony to the nations, and then the end will come.
              so, when you see the desolation spoken of by the
        prophet daniel, ...let those who are in judea flee to
        the mountains.
 
              immediately after the tribulation of those days,
        the sun will be darkened... the stars will fall from
        heaven... then will appear the sign of the son of man
        in heaven, and all the tribes of the earth will mourn,
        and see the son of man coming... and he will send out
        his angels... and gather his elect...
              learn the lesson of the fig tree: as soon as its
        branch becomes tender and puts forth leaves, you know
        that summer is near.  so also, when you see all these
        things, you will know that he is near, at the very
        gate.  truly i say to you, this generation will not
        pass away until all these things take place...
              but, of the day and hour, no one knows; not the
        angels, not the son, but only the father... therefore,
        you also must be ready, for the son of man is coming
        at an hour you do not expect.
 
 from this, it is clear that jesus thought the world would in
 within the lifetimes of at least some of his disciples.  he tells
 them that although he doesn't know the exact day or hour, that it
 will come, and thus they must be ready.  theologians have wet
 their pants in panic to find some way out of this holy error. 
 but, unfortunately, jesus made himself to explicit.  he told his
 disciples that their generation would still be around at the end,
 and that they in particular should prepare for it, prepare to be
 swept away.
       there have been some who resorted to removing the inerrant
 nature of the bible, and said that the phrase, "this generation
 shall not pass away..." really means "this race of people will not
 pass away..."  of course, the word for generation is used many
 times to refer to exactly that, the generation of the disciples. 
 it is an interesting notion that when god decided to learn greek,
 he didn't learn it well enough to make himself clear.  but. it is
 quite obvious from the rest of the dialogue that the disciples (at
 least some of them) are supposed to live to the end of the world. 
 the charge of mistranslation is completely blown away by looking
 at the apostles' responses.  it becomes abundantly clear from
 rev. 22.7, 1 peter 4.7, 1 john 2.18, and rev. 22.20, that jesus
 meant exactly what he said.  the end was very near.
 
        for 2,000 years, christians have rationalised this 24th
 chapter of matthew, or ignored its meaning altogether.  for 2,000
 years, they have waited for their executed leader to come back,
 hearing of wars, and rumours of wars, sure that he is coming soon. 
 surely he must be.  all we must do is wait.  can you imagine how
 tired he must be, sitting around up there, being holy, waiting for
 just the right moment to spring?
 
 
        so, shortly after his crucifixion, jesus of nazareth,
 (joshua-ben-joseph), died.   it is said that after three days, or
 three days and three nights, or three periods of time, or three
 eternal seconds --or three of whatever they can decide makes for
 less trouble-- he was seen again, resurrected, glowing with divine
 radiance.  then the saviour decided it wasn't in the best
 interests of his new religion to stick around, and therefore
 disappeared from sight into heaven.  so the story goes, anyway. 
 as has been seen, there were many things attributed to jesus when
 people got around to writing the gospel stories down.  to them,
 jesus was the fulfiller of all prophecy and scripture.  we have
 seen, though, that this matter is quite shaky.  but, throughout
 church history, christians have held fast to faith, in simple
 belief.  what doctrinal objections could not be solved with
 argumentation or brute force, faith and forgetfulness kept away
 from question.  to question and investigate has never been the
 easiest way to treat matters.  thus for 2,000 years, the
 prophecies cited in the new testament have gone on largely
 accepted.  things may well continue that way for some time. 
 pausing a moment to consider the way the doctrines of christianity
 have been accepted and used (properly or improperly) to support
 wars and persecution, i suppose there is one prophecy of which
 christianity can securely keep hold.
 
        [mt 10.34]  jesus: "don't think that i have come to
        bring peace on earth.  i haven't come to bring peace,
        but rather a sword."
 
 
 
 