
 jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au (joseph askew) writes:
 > oh goody, i get to defend china again on alt.atheism. just exactly what
 > 'policy of mandatory forced abortion in tibet' are we talking about here?
 > what are the words 'policy' and 'mandatory' doing there - you mean there
 > is a law requiring all (or even some) ethnically tibetan babies to be
 > aborted? just how many are we talking about? hundred? dozens? one or two?
 > you are aware of course that even in the days when the one child policy was
 > enforced the tibetans and all other ethnic minorities were exempt? of course
 > you do. and you are aware that if the chinese wanted to kill all the tibetans
 > they have lots of better means and they have had a rather long time in which
 > to do it. but for some reason there seems to be more tibetans now than at any
 > other time. odd for a people supposedly suffering a 'policy of mandatory
 > forced abortion'.
 
 "laugh if you want to,
  or say you don't care;
  if you cannot see it,
  you think it's not there.
  it doesn't work that way.
  peek-a-boo!"
               -- devo
 
 > don't suppose you care to provide a credible citation?
 
 read your own newspapers.  i don't have the space to keep them all.  if i
 kept enough records to be able to respond with a couple of pages of citations
 every time some idiot said "nyaah nyaah, prove it, gimme a citation", i
 wouldn't have any space left in my flat.  it's enough work to track down
 references to prove that george bush really said atheists shouldn't be
 considered citizens, or that einstein wasn't a christian, and those used to
 get demanded every week.
 
 and i suspect if i did track down the various issues of the guardian which
 have carried detailed reports on the subject, you'd dismiss them as "liberal
 propaganda", just like gregg dismisses the articles about islam in the times.
 
 did you miss amnesty international's widely-announced report about torture in
 china?  it was in the news a couple of weeks ago.  oh, i forgot, that's just
 liberal propaganda.  i mean, is it plausible that the country responsible for
 the tienanmen square massacre would torture and kill people?  naaah.  forget
 it.
 
 keep up the good work.  i'm sure china's "most favoured nation" status will
 be renewed in june, and you can feel really proud.
 
 
 mathew
 