
 
 is it just me, or has this part gotten beyond useful?
 
 gregg is not, as i understand his posts, giving any support to the bounty
 on rushdie's life.  if that's correct, end of one point...
 
 gregg is using the concept of legal in a way most westerners don't accept.
 his comments about islamic law i think make a great deal of sense to him,
 and are even making a _little_ sense to me now - if a person is a member
 of a group (religion or whatever) they bind themselves to follow the ways
 of the group within the bounds of what the group requires as a minimum.
 the big bone of contention here that i'm picking up is that in the west
 we have secular governments that maintain, more or less, a level of control
 and of requirements outside the requirements of optional groups.  i think
 the majority of us reading this thread are in tune (note - i didn't say
 "in agreement") with the idea that you are finally responsible to the
 secular government,  and within that to the group or groups a person may
 have chosen.
 
 with that in mind, it not possible under secular law ("legally" as most
 people would define the term) to hold a person to a particular group once
 they decide to separate from it.  only if the secular authorities agree
 that there is a requirement of some sort (contractual, etc) is there
 any secular _enforcement_ allowed by a group to a group member or past
 group member.
 
 a religion can, and often does, believe in and require additional duties
 of a group member.  and it can enforce the fulfillment of those duties
 in many ways - ostracism is common for example.  but the limit comes when
 the enforcement would impose unwanted and/or unaccepted onus on a person
 _in conflict with secular law_.
 
 this is the difference.  in a theocracy, the requirements of the secular
 authorities are, by definition, congruent with the religious authorities.
 outside a theocracy, this is not _necessarily_ true.  religious requirements
 _may_ coincide or may not.  similiarly, religious consequences _may_ or
 may not coincide with secular consequences (if any).
 
 regards,
 
 dew
 -- 
 dewey henize sys/net admin risc hardware (512) 891-8637 pager 928-7447 x 9637
 