
 archive-name: atheism/resources
 alt-atheism-archive-name: resources
 last-modified: 5 april 1993
 version: 1.1
 
                               atheist resources
 
                       addresses of atheist organizations
 
                                      usa
 
 freedom from religion foundation
 
 darwin fish bumper stickers and assorted other atheist paraphernalia are
 available from the freedom from religion foundation in the us.
 
 write to:  ffrf, p.o. box 750, madison, wi 53701.
 telephone: (608) 256-8900
 
 evolution designs
 
 evolution designs sell the "darwin fish".  it's a fish symbol, like the ones
 christians stick on their cars, but with feet and the word "darwin" written
 inside.  the deluxe moulded 3d plastic fish is $4.95 postpaid in the us.
 
 write to:  evolution designs, 7119 laurel canyon #4, north hollywood,
            ca 91605.
 
 people in the san francisco bay area can get darwin fish from lynn gold --
 try mailing <figmo@netcom.com>.  for net people who go to lynn directly, the
 price is $4.95 per fish.
 
 set free
 
 atheist stickers, t-shirts and books.
 
 write to:  set free, p.o. box 3065-192, garden grove, ca 92642.
 
 american atheist press
 
 aap publish various atheist books -- critiques of the bible, lists of
 biblical contradictions, and so on.  one such book is:
 
 "the bible handbook" by w.p. ball and g.w. foote.  american atheist press.
 372 pp.  isbn 0-910309-26-4, 2nd edition, 1986.  bible contradictions,
 absurdities, atrocities, immoralities... contains ball, foote: "the bible
 contradicts itself", aap.  based on the king james version of the bible.
 
 write to:  american atheist press, p.o. box 140195, austin, tx 78714-0195.
       or:  7215 cameron road, austin, tx 78752-2973.
 telephone: (512) 458-1244
 fax:       (512) 467-9525
 
 prometheus books
 
 sell books including haught's "holy horrors" (see below).
 
 write to:  700 east amherst street, buffalo, new york 14215.
 telephone: (716) 837-2475.
 
 an alternate address (which may be newer or older) is:
 prometheus books, 59 glenn drive, buffalo, ny 14228-2197.
 
 african-americans for humanism
 
 an organization promoting black secular humanism and uncovering the history of
 black freethought.  they publish a quarterly newsletter, aah examiner.
 
 write to:  norm r. allen, jr., african americans for humanism, p.o. box 664,
            buffalo, ny 14226.
 
                                 united kingdom
 
 rationalist press association          national secular society
 88 islington high street               702 holloway road
 london n1 8ew                          london n19 3nl
 071 226 7251                           071 272 1266
 
 british humanist association           south place ethical society
 14 lamb's conduit passage              conway hall
 london wc1r 4rh                        red lion square
 071 430 0908                           london wc1r 4rl
 fax 071 430 1271                       071 831 7723
 
 the national secular society publish "the freethinker", a monthly magazine
 founded in 1881.
 
                                    germany
 
 ibka e.v.
 internationaler bund der konfessionslosen und atheisten
 postfach 880, d-1000 berlin 41. germany.
 
 ibka publish a journal:
 miz. (materialien und informationen zur zeit. politisches
 journal der konfessionslosesn und atheisten. hrsg. ibka e.v.)
 miz-vertrieb, postfach 880, d-1000 berlin 41. germany.
 
 for atheist books, write to:
 
 ibdk, internationaler b"ucherdienst der konfessionslosen
 postfach 3005, d-3000 hannover 1. germany.
 telephone: 0511/211216
 
 
                                books -- fiction
 
 thomas m. disch
 
 "the santa claus compromise"
 short story.  the ultimate proof that santa exists.  all characters and 
 events are fictitious.  any similarity to living or dead gods -- uh, well...
 
 walter m. miller, jr
 
 "a canticle for leibowitz"
 one gem in this post atomic doomsday novel is the monks who spent their lives
 copying blueprints from "saint leibowitz", filling the sheets of paper with
 ink and leaving white lines and letters.
 
 edgar pangborn
 
 "davy"
 post atomic doomsday novel set in clerical states.  the church, for example,
 forbids that anyone "produce, describe or use any substance containing...
 atoms". 
 
 philip k. dick
 
 philip k. dick dick wrote many philosophical and thought-provoking short 
 stories and novels.  his stories are bizarre at times, but very approachable.
 he wrote mainly sf, but he wrote about people, truth and religion rather than
 technology.  although he often believed that he had met some sort of god, he
 remained sceptical.  amongst his novels, the following are of some relevance:
 
 "galactic pot-healer"
 a fallible alien deity summons a group of earth craftsmen and women to a
 remote planet to raise a giant cathedral from beneath the oceans.  when the
 deity begins to demand faith from the earthers, pot-healer joe fernwright is
 unable to comply.  a polished, ironic and amusing novel.
 
 "a maze of death"
 noteworthy for its description of a technology-based religion.
 
 "valis"
 the schizophrenic hero searches for the hidden mysteries of gnostic
 christianity after reality is fired into his brain by a pink laser beam of
 unknown but possibly divine origin.  he is accompanied by his dogmatic and
 dismissively atheist friend and assorted other odd characters.
 
 "the divine invasion"
 god invades earth by making a young woman pregnant as she returns from
 another star system.  unfortunately she is terminally ill, and must be
 assisted by a dead man whose brain is wired to 24-hour easy listening music.
 
 margaret atwood
 
 "the handmaid's tale"
 a story based on the premise that the us congress is mysteriously
 assassinated, and fundamentalists quickly take charge of the nation to set it
 "right" again.  the book is the diary of a woman's life as she tries to live
 under the new christian theocracy.  women's right to own property is revoked,
 and their bank accounts are closed; sinful luxuries are outlawed, and the
 radio is only used for readings from the bible.  crimes are punished
 retroactively: doctors who performed legal abortions in the "old world" are
 hunted down and hanged.  atwood's writing style is difficult to get used to
 at first, but the tale grows more and more chilling as it goes on.
 
 various authors
 
 "the bible"
 this somewhat dull and rambling work has often been criticized.  however, it
 is probably worth reading, if only so that you'll know what all the fuss is
 about.  it exists in many different versions, so make sure you get the one
 true version.
 
                              books -- non-fiction
 
 peter de rosa
 
 "vicars of christ", bantam press, 1988
 although de rosa seems to be christian or even catholic this is a very
 enlighting history of papal immoralities, adulteries, fallacies etc.
 (german translation: "gottes erste diener. die dunkle seite des papsttums",
 droemer-knaur, 1989)
 
 michael martin
 
 "atheism: a philosophical justification", temple university press,
  philadelphia, usa.
 a detailed and scholarly justification of atheism.  contains an outstanding
 appendix defining terminology and usage in this (necessarily) tendentious
 area.  argues both for "negative atheism" (i.e. the "non-belief in the
 existence of god(s)") and also for "positive atheism" ("the belief in the
 non-existence of god(s)").  includes great refutations of the most
 challenging arguments for god; particular attention is paid to refuting
 contempory theists such as platinga and swinburne.
 541 pages. isbn 0-87722-642-3 (hardcover; paperback also available)
 
 "the case against christianity", temple university press
 a comprehensive critique of christianity, in which he considers
 the best contemporary defences of christianity and (ultimately)
 demonstrates that they are unsupportable and/or incoherent.
 273 pages. isbn 0-87722-767-5
 
 james turner
 
 "without god, without creed", the johns hopkins university press, baltimore,
  md, usa
 subtitled "the origins of unbelief in america".  examines the way in which
 unbelief (whether agnostic or atheistic)  became a mainstream alternative
 world-view.  focusses on the period 1770-1900, and while considering france
 and britain the emphasis is on american, and particularly new england
 developments.  "neither a religious history of secularization or atheism,
 without god, without creed is, rather, the intellectual history of the fate
 of a single idea, the belief that god exists." 
 316 pages. isbn (hardcover) 0-8018-2494-x (paper) 0-8018-3407-4
 
 george seldes (editor)
 
 "the great thoughts", ballantine books, new york, usa
 a "dictionary of quotations" of a different kind, concentrating on statements
 and writings which, explicitly or implicitly, present the person's philosophy
 and world-view.  includes obscure (and often suppressed) opinions from many
 people.  for some popular observations, traces the way in which various
 people expressed and twisted the idea over the centuries.  quite a number of
 the quotations are derived from cardiff's "what great men think of religion"
 and noyes' "views of religion".
 490 pages. isbn (paper) 0-345-29887-x.
 
 richard swinburne
 
 "the existence of god (revised edition)", clarendon paperbacks, oxford
 this book is the second volume in a trilogy that began with "the coherence of
 theism" (1977) and was concluded with "faith and reason" (1981).  in this
 work, swinburne attempts to construct a series of inductive arguments for the
 existence of god.  his arguments, which are somewhat tendentious and rely
 upon the imputation of late 20th century western christian values and
 aesthetics to a god which is supposedly as simple as can be conceived, were
 decisively rejected in mackie's "the miracle of theism".  in the revised
 edition of "the existence of god", swinburne includes an appendix in which he
 makes a somewhat incoherent attempt to rebut mackie.
 
 j. l. mackie
 
 "the miracle of theism", oxford
 this (posthumous) volume contains a comprehensive review of the principal
 arguments for and against the existence of god.  it ranges from the classical
 philosophical positions of descartes, anselm, berkeley, hume et al, through
 the moral arguments of newman, kant and sidgwick, to the recent restatements
 of the classical theses by plantinga and swinburne.  it also addresses those
 positions which push the concept of god beyond the realm of the rational,
 such as those of kierkegaard, kung and philips, as well as "replacements for
 god" such as lelie's axiarchism.  the book is a delight to read - less
 formalistic and better written than martin's works, and refreshingly direct
 when compared with the hand-waving of swinburne.
 
 james a. haught
 
 "holy horrors: an illustrated history of religious murder and madness",
  prometheus books
 looks at religious persecution from ancient times to the present day -- and
 not only by christians.
 library of congress catalog card number 89-64079. 1990.
 
 norm r. allen, jr.
 
 "african american humanism: an anthology"
 see the listing for african americans for humanism above.
 
 gordon stein
 
 "an anthology of atheism and rationalism", prometheus books
 an anthology covering a wide range of subjects, including 'the devil, evil
 and morality' and 'the history of freethought'.  comprehensive bibliography.
 
 edmund d. cohen
 
 "the mind of the bible-believer", prometheus books
 a study of why people become christian fundamentalists, and what effect it
 has on them.
 
 george h. smith
 
 "atheism: the case against god", prometheus books
 describes the positions of atheism, theism and agnosticism.  reviews many 
 of the arguments used in favour of the existence of god.  concludes with an
 assessment of the impact of god on people's lives.
 
                                 net resources
 
 there's a small mail-based archive server at mantis.co.uk which carries
 archives of old alt.atheism.moderated articles and assorted other files.  for
 more information, send mail to archive-server@mantis.co.uk saying
 
    help
    send atheism/index
 
 and it will mail back a reply.
 
 
 mathew
 ÿ
 