	followups into alt.fan.robert.mcelwaine, or at least consider doing so.
 followup-to: alt.fan.robert.mcelwaine
 
           
             
                             free-energy technology
                        by robert e. mcelwaine, physicist
           
                ninety to a hundred years ago, everybody "knew" that a 
           heavier-than-air machine could not possibly fly.  it would 
           violate the "laws" of physics.  all of the "experts" and 
           "authorities" said so. 
           
                for example, simon newcomb declared in 1901:  "the 
           demonstration that no possible combination of known 
           substances, known forms of machinery and known forms of 
           force, can be united in a practical machine by which man 
           shall fly long distances through the air, seems to the writer 
           as complete as it is possible for the demonstration of any 
           physical fact to be." 
           
                fortunately, a few smart people such as the wright 
           brothers did not accept such pronouncements as the final 
           word.  now we take airplanes for granted, (except when they 
           crash). 
           
                today, orthodox physicists and other "scientists" are 
           saying similar things against several kinds of 'free energy' 
           technologies, using negative terms such as "pseudo-science" 
           and "perpetual motion", and citing so-called "laws" which 
           assert that "energy cannot be created or destroyed" ("1st law 
           of thermodynamics") and "there is always a decrease in useful 
           energy" ("2nd law of thermodynamics").  the physicists do not 
           know how to do certain things, so they arrogantly declare 
           that those things cannot be done.  such principles of 
           impotence are common in orthodox modern "science" and help to 
           cover up inconsistencies and contradictions in orthodox 
           modern theories. 
           
                free energy inventions are devices which can tap a 
           seemingly unlimited supply of energy from the universe, with-
           out burning any kind of fuel, making them the perfect 
           solution to the world-wide energy crisis and its associated 
           pollution, degradation, and depletion of the environment. 
           
                most free energy devices probably do not create energy, 
           but rather tap into existing natural energy sources by 
           various forms of induction.  unlike solar or wind devices, 
           they need little or no energy storage capacity, because they 
           can tap as much energy as needed when needed.  solar energy 
           has the dis-advantage that the sun is often blocked by 
           clouds, trees, buildings, or the earth itself, or is reduced 
           by haze or smog or by thick atmosphere at low altitudes and 
           high latitudes.  likewise, wind speed is widely variable and 
           often non-existent.  neither solar nor wind power are 
           suitable to directly power cars and airplanes.  properly 
           designed free energy devices do not have such limitations. 
           
                for example, at least three u.s. patents (#3,811,058, 
           #3,879,622, and #4,151,431) have so far been awarded for 
           motors that run exclusively on permanent magnets, seemingly 
           tapping into energy circulating through the earth's magnetic 
           field.  the first two require a feedback network in order to 
           be self-running.  the third one, as described in detail in 
           "science & mechanics" magazine, spring 1980, ("amazing 
           magnet-powered motor", by jorma hyypia, pages 45-48, 114-117, 
           and front cover), requires critical sizes, shapes, 
           orientations, and spacings of magnets, but no feedback.  such 
           a motor could drive an electric generator or reversible 
           heatpump in one's home, year round, for free.  [complete 
           descriptive copies of u.s. patents are $3.00 each from the 
           u.s. patent office, 2021 jefferson davis hwy., arlington, va  
           22202; correct 7-digit patent number required.  or try 
           getting copies of both the article and the patents via your 
           local public or university library's inter-library loan 
           dept..] 
           
                a second type of free-energy device, such as the 'gray 
           motor' (u.s. patent #3,890,548), the 'tesla coil', and the 
           motor of inventor joseph newman [see science, 2-10-84, pages 
           571-2.], taps electro-magnetic energy by induction from 
           'earth resonance' (about 12 cycles per second plus 
           harmonics).  they typically have a 'spark gap' in the circuit 
           which serves to synchronize the energy in the coils with the 
           energy being tapped.  it is important that the total 
           'inductance' and 'capacitance' of the device combine to 
           'resonate' at the same frequency as 'earth resonance' in 
           order to maximize the power output.  this output can also be 
           increased by centering the spark gap at the 'neutral center' 
           of a strong u-shaped permanent magnet.  in the case of a 
           tesla coil, slipping a 'toroid choke coil' around the 
           secondary coil will enhance output power.  ["earth energy: 
           fuelless propulsion & power systems", by john bigelow, 1976, 
           health research, p.o. box 70, mokelumne hill, ca  95245.] 
           
                during the 1930's, an austrian civil engineer named 
           viktor schauberger invented and partially developed an 
           'implosion turbine' (german name, 'zokwendle'), after 
           analyzing erosion, and lack of erosion, in differently shaped 
           waterways, and developing sophisticated mathematical 
           equations to explain it.  as described in the book "a 
           breakthrough to new free-energy sources", by dan a. davidson, 
           1977, water is pumped by an impeller pump through a 
           logarithmic-spiral-shaped coil of tubing until it reaches a 
           critical velocity.  the water then implodes, no longer 
           touching the inside walls of the tubing, and drives the pump, 
           which then converts the pump's motor into an electric 
           generator.  the device seems to be tapping energy from that 
           of the earth's rotation, via the 'coriolis effect', like a 
           tornado.  [ it can also neutralize gravity! ] 
           
                a fourth type of free energy device is the 'mcclintock 
           air motor' (u.s. patent #2,982,261), which is a cross between 
           a diesel engine (it has three cylinders with a compression 
           ratio of 27 to 1) and a rotary engine (with solar and 
           planetary gears).  it burns no fuel, but becomes self-running 
           by driving its own air compressor.  this engine also 
           generates a lot of heat, which could be used to heat 
           buildings; and its very high torque makes it ideal for large 
           trucks, preventing their slowing down when climbing hills.  
           [david mcclintock is also the real original inventor of the 
           automatic transmission, differential, and 4-wheel drive.] 
           
                crystals may someday be used to supply energy, as shown 
           in the star trek shows, perhaps by inserting each one between 
           metal capacitor plates and bombarding it with a beam of 
           particles from a small radioactive source like that used in a 
           common household smoke detector. 
           
                one other energy source should be mentioned here, 
           despite the fact that it does not fit the definition of free 
           energy.  a bulgarian-born american physicist named joseph 
           maglich has invented and partially developed an atomic fusion 
           reactor which he calls 'migma', which uses non-radioactive 
           deuterium as a fuel [available in nearly unlimited quantities 
           from sea water], does not produce radioactive waste, can be 
           converted directly into electricity (with-out energy-wasting 
           steam turbines), and can be constructed small enough to power 
           a house or large enough to power a city.  and unlike the 
           "tokamaks" and laser fusion monstrosities that we read about, 
           migma works, already producing at least three watts of power 
           for every watt put in.  ["new times" (u.s. version), 6-26-78, 
           pages 32-40.] 
           
                and then there are the 'cold fusion' experiments that 
           have been in the news lately, originally conducted by 
           university of utah researchers b. stanley pons and martin 
           fleischmann.  some u.s. navy researchers at the china lake 
           naval weapons center in california, under the direction of 
           chemist melvin miles, finally took the trouble to collect the 
           bubbles coming from such an apparatus, had them analyzed with 
           mass-spectrometry techniques, and found helium 4, which 
           proves that atomic fusion did indeed take place, and enough 
           of it to explain the excess heat generated. 
           
                there are good indications that the two so-called "laws" 
           of thermodynamics are not so "absolute".  for example, the 
           late physicist dewey b. larson developed a comprehensive 
           general unified theory of the physical universe, which he 
           calls the 'reciprocal system', (which he describes in detail 
           in several books such as "nothing but motion" (1979) and "the 
           universe of motion" (1984)), in which the physical universe 
           has two distinct halves, the material half and an anti-matter 
           half, with a continuous cycle of matter and energy passing 
           between them, with-out the "heat death" predicted by 
           thermodynamic "laws".  his theory explains the universe much 
           better than modern orthodox theories, including phenomena 
           that orthodox physicists and astronomers are still scratching 
           their heads about, and is self-consistent in every way.  some 
           free energy devices might be tapping into that energy flow, 
           seemingly converting "low-quality energy" into "high-quality 
           energy". 
           
                also, certain religious organizations such as 'sant mat' 
           and 'eckankar' teach their members that the physical universe 
           is only the lowest of at least a dozen major levels of 
           existence, like parallel universes, or analogous to tv 
           channels, as described in books like "the path of the 
           masters", by dr. julian johnson, 1939, and "eckankar: the key 
           to secret worlds", by sri paul twitchell, 1969.  for example, 
           the next level up from the physical universe is commonly 
           called the 'astral plane'.  long-time members of these groups 
           have learned to 'soul travel' into these higher worlds and 
           report on conditions there.  it seems plausible that energy 
           could flow down from these higher levels into the physical 
           universe, or be created at the boundary between them, given 
           the right configuration of matter to channel it.  this is 
           supported by many successful laboratory-controlled 
           experiments in psycho-kinesis throughout the world, such as 
           those described in the book "psychic discoveries behind the 
           iron curtain". 
           
                in terms of economics, the market has failed.  inventors 
           do not have enough money and other resources to fully develop 
           and mass-produce free energy equipment, and the conventional 
           energy producer$ have no desire to do so because of their 
           ve$ted intere$t$.  the government is needed to intervene.  if 
           the government does not intervene, then the total supply of 
           energy resources from the earth will continue to decline and 
           will soon run out, prices for energy will increase, and 
           pollution and its harmful effects (including the 'greenhouse 
           effect', acid rain, smog, radioactive contamination, oil 
           spills, rape of the land by strip mining, etc.) will continue 
           to increase. 
           
                the government should subsidize research and development 
           of free energy by inventors and universities, subsidize 
           private production (until the producers can make it on their 
           own), and subsidize consumption by low-income consumers of 
           free energy hardware. 
           
                the long-range effects of such government intervention 
           would be wide-spread and profound.  the quantity of energy 
           demanded from conventional energy producer$ (coal mining 
           companie$, oil companie$ and countries, electric utilitie$, 
           etc.) would drop to near zero, forcing their employees to 
           seek work elsewhere.  energy resources (coal, uranium, oil, 
           and gas) would be left in the ground.  prices for 
           conventional energy supplies would also drop to near zero, 
           while the price of free energy equipment would start out high 
           but drop as supply increases (as happened with vcr's, 
           personal computers, etc.).  costs of producing products that 
           require large quantities of energy to produce would decrease, 
           along with their prices to consumers.  consumers would be 
           able to realize the "opportunity costs" of paying electric 
           utility bills or buying home heating fuel.  tourism would 
           benefit and increase because travelers would not have to 
           spend their money for gasoline for their cars.  government 
           tax revenue from gasoline and other fuels would have to be 
           obtained in some other way.  and energy could no longer be 
           used as a motive or excuse for making war. 
           
                many conventional energy producer$ would go out of 
           business, but society as a whole, and the earth's environment 
           and ecosystems, would benefit greatly.  it is the people, 
           that government should serve, rather than the big 
           corporation$ and bank$. 
           
 
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (patents, articles, books). 
 
           
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important information is encouraged. 
 
 
                                    robert e. mcelwaine
                                    b.s., physics, uw-ec
 
 
 