
 ee0i+@andrew.cmu.edu ("ethan z. evans") writes:
 : 
 : of course, penalties will have to be changed:
 : 
 : roughing:	chauvanistic males being aggressive
 : slashing:	chauvanistic males venting frustration
 : fighting:	proof that males cannot cope with their feelings
 : 
 
 no no no! since all the penalties fall into three classes, there should
 only be three penalties:
 
 1. foul (any illegal contact with the other player or his stick with your
    body or stick). if you get 5 you are out for the game.
 
 2. unsportsmanlike contact. (an intentional foul). this inlcludes all the
    current flavours of roughing, fighting and boarding. if you get two you
    are thrown out of the game, and fined.
 
 3. technical foul. bad mouthing the ref, by player or coach. penalty shot
    is awarded. two and you are thrown out of the game.
 
 besides the penalty shot for one technical, if the team gets 5 penalties
 in a period, the opposing team gets a penalty shot for every additional one,
 until the end of the period. the victim gets two shots if he/she was in
 the act of shooting when the foul ocured.
 
 this works well for several reasons. first, penalty shots are the most
 exciting thing in hockey, right? so, it follows that the more the better.
 next, when the player is setting up for a penalty shot, the network can
 take a commercial. finally, with only three penalties, the network
 announcers (don meredith, dick vitale, john madden, pat summerall, and
 marv levy, among others) will be able to tell the viewers what happened before
 the pa announcer says it.
 
 oh, one other rule. when a goal is scored (10-20 times a period), the play
 cannot resume until the pa announcer announces it. this way, the network
 can sneak in a few more commercials. then, once the pa announcer has told
 them who scored, the tv announcer can tell you the viewer, and even have a 
 chance of pronouncing his name right.
 
 seriously, though, i actually went to see a nba basketball game last week,
 for the first time in my life. i was amazed how boring it was. the play is
 so slow they actually had fans come out for things like free-throw shooting
 contests during the period!. of course the 'laker girls' get to do their 
 routines at least 6-8 times during the game, and not just between periods
 either. there is a whistle every 30 seconds on average, maybe less. the
 game is 48 minutes, with 2 minutes between quarters 1-2 and 3-4 and a
 10 minute halftime, and it still takes over 2 hours.
 
 the reason for this has to be tv. there is plenty of room to throw in
 commercials, and have the announcer jabber while nothing else is happening.
 on tv, basketball is fairly entertaining, imho. but, it is better to watch
 it on tv than to be there. if this is the road the nhl is following, then
 it truly is a sad day.
 
 enough for now.
 
 dvb
 