
 i found this press release from trial lawyers for public justice on
 another system, and thought it would be of interest on campuses 
 where the administration or the athletics department wants to 
 eliminate the women's ice hockey team.
 
  women athletes, tlp win sex discrimination ruling: brown university
 ordered to restore two women's varsity teams
 to: national desk, sports writer
  contact: lynette labinger, 401-421-9794, home 401-274-7507, or
           ray marcaccio, 401-831-8900, both of trial lawyers for
           public justice
 
    washington, april 16 -- the u.s. court of appeals
 for the first circuit in boston has upheld a u.s. district court
 order requiring brown university to immediately reinstate its women's
 gymnastics and volleyball teams to full varsity status. the ruling in
 cohen et al. v. brown university is the first appeals court decision
 in the nation applying title ix to intercollegiate athletics.  trial
 lawyers for public justice (tlpj), is the national public interest
 law firm representing the women athletes.
    "this ruling makes clear what we have said all along -- if a
 school wants to eliminate teams before women have their fair share of
 opportunities to participate, they can only eliminiate men's teams,"
 said tlpj executive director arthur bryant, co-counsel in the case.
    the class action, filed april, 1992, charged brown with violating
 title ix of the education amendments of 1972, the federal law that
 prohibits sex discrimination by all educational institutions
 receiving federal funds.  brown terminated the two women's teams as
 university-funded sports in may 1991, allowing them to continue to
 compete against varsity teams if they could raise their own funds for
 uniforms, travel, coaches, and all other expenses.  they had also
 been denied admission preferences for use in recruiting new members.
    "this is a major victory for women and the cause of equal rights,"
 said tlpj lead counsel lynette labinger of providence's roney &
 labinger.  "universities across america need to reevaluate their
 programs quickly. title ix is the law and it's going to be enforced."
    three similar title ix appeals await decision.  colorado state
 university, indiana university of pennsylvania (iup), and colgate
 university are asking federal appeals courts to overturn court orders
 requiring them to reinstate or establish specific women's varsity
 teams.  continuing its cutting-edge title ix activities, tlpj is
 representing women athletes at iup.
    in addition to labinger and bryant, tlpj's legal team included:
 ray marcaccio of blish & cavanagh and amato deluca of mandell, deluca
 & schwartz in providence; and sandra duggan of philadelphia.  the
 national women's law center, women's sports foundation, and national
 association for girls and women in sports filed an amicus brief in
 support of tlpj's appeal.
  -30-
 