
 
 here is a press release from the white house.
 
  remarks by president clinton to ncaa division i champion hockey team
 april 19; q&a following
  to: national desk
  contact: white house office of the press secretary, 202-456-2100
 
    washington, april 19 -- following is a transcript
 of remarks by president clinton to the university of maine "black
 bears" ncaa division i hockey champions:
 
                            the rose garden
 
  9:58 a.m. edt
 
      the president:  good morning ladies and gentlemen.  it's
 an honor for me to welcome the university of maine black bears, the
 winner of the ncaa division i hockey national championship to the
 rose garden and the white house.  i understand from senator mitchell
 that this is the first team from the university of maine every to win
 a national championship.  and we're glad to have them here.
 
      i'm inspired not only by how the team pulled together to
 win the championship, but how the entire state pulled together to
 cheer them onto victory.
 
      coming from a state that is also relatively small in
 size, but also filled with pride and tradition and community, i can
 understand how the people of maine must feel about the black bears.
 in our state people are still talking about the time we won the
 orange bowl over the number one ranked football team, and that was
 back in 1978.  i'm sure that 15 years from now, the people of maine
 will as proud of this team as they are today.
 
      you know, in my state football is a slightly more
 popular sport than hockey.  we don't have a lot of ice.  (laughter.)
 but after spending three months getting banged around in this town, i
 can understand a little more about hockey than i did before i came
 here.  hockey is a tough game.  it's a hard-hitting sport.  it does
 have one virtue though, there's a penalty for delay of game.  i wish
 we had that rule in the senate.  (laughter.)
 
      in government as in hockey, leadership is important.  in
 the united states senate, our team has a great captain, the majority
 leader and the senior senator from maine, george mitchell; junior
 senator -- cohen looks so young, i can't imagine.  (laughter.)  i'm
 actually bitter about senator cohen because he looks so much younger
 than me.
 
      on your hockey team, the captain jim montgomery has done
 a great job.  he scored the winning goal late in the championship
 game, leading you to a come-from-behind victory -- something else i
 know a little bit about.
 
      sport brings out the best in individuals and in teams
 and in communities.  i share the pride that senator mitchell and
 senator cohen and congressman andrews and all the people of maine
 must feel for the black bears who have shown us all how to play as a
 team, how to bring out the best in one another, and how to come from
 behind.
 
      i think it's important, as i ask young people from
 around america who have achieved outstanding things in working
 together, to come here to the white house to be recognized and
 appreciated by their country, to remember that those kinds of values
 and those kinds of virtues need to be ingrained in all of us for all
 of our lives.
 
      we now have another role model, and i'm glad to have
 them here today.  (applause.)
 
      (the president is presented with team jersey.)
 (applause.)
 
      the president:  that's great.  i love it.  it's beautiful.
 (applause.)
 
      (the president is presented with an autographed stick.)
 
      the president:  thank you.  that's great.  (applause.)
 
                              * * * * * *
 
      q  mr. president, did you authorize the move on waco
 this morning, sir?
 
      the president:  i was aware of it.  i think the attorney
 general made the decision.  and i think i should refer all questions
 to her and to the fbi.
 
      q  did you have any instructions for her as to how it
 should be executed?
 
      the president:  no, they made the tactical decisions.
 that was their judgment, the fbi.
 
      q  is this a raid?
 
      the president:  and i will -- i want to refer you to --
 talk to the attorney general and the fbi.  i knew it was going to be
 done, but the decisions were entirely theirs, all the tactical
 decisions.
 
      q  what did you and senator mitchell talk about this
 morning?
 
      q  any chance for that stimulus package?
 
      the president:  senator mitchell ought to pay my
 quarter.  (laughter.)  i was in there -- (laughter).
 
      senator mitchell:  you have to pay that quarter.
 
      the president:  i was ready.  (laughter.)  senator
 mitchell, he's worth a quarter any day.
 
      q  any chance for your bill, sir?
 
      the president:  we talked about what was going to happen
 this week in the senate and about what other meetings we're going to
 have for the rest of the week.  we only had about five minutes to
 talk.  and we agreed we'd get back together later, around noon, and
 talk some more.
 
      q  senator dole said over the weekend that your
 compromise is no compromise.
 
      the president:  well, i know he did, but, look, senator
 dole and a lot of the other republicans now in the senate voted for
 the same kind of thing for ronald reagan in 1983; and our research
 indicates that a majority of them over time voted for a total of 28
 emergency spending measures totalling over $100 billion when reagan
 and bush were president, in those administrations.  and many of those
 purposes were not nearly as worthy as putting the american people
 back to work.  i don't want to go back and revisit every one, but you
 
 
 can do it.  you can look at the research there.  so this position
 they're taking is not credible.  we have a very tough five-year
 deficit reduction plan.  all these costs are covered during that time
 and then some.  and the very people that are saying this has all got
 to be paid for don't have much of a history on which to base their
 position.  they've got 12 years of vote for stimulus measures of this
 kind that had very little to with putting the american people back to
 work.  so i think we've got a chance to work it out, and i'm hopeful.
 we'll see what happens today and tomorrow.  i'm feeling pretty good
 about it.
 
      the press:  thank you
 
                                  end       10:10 a.m. edt
 
  -30-
 
 --
 canada remote systems - toronto, ontario
 416-629-7000/629-7044
 