
 how long can the leafs play short-handed and still be expected to
 score?  they did some fine penely-killing in the first (2 men down
 for a couple of minutes at one point) but they just couldn't keep it 
 up.  they spent virtually the entire game either short-handed or
 just coming off a penelty -- as soon as they'd get re-grouped, they're
 penalized again!
  
 sheesh -- like gilmour said after the 1st -- you can't go calling 
 every little push an shove in a game like that.  and if you're going
 to, you have to do it for both teams.
  
 pearson (one of my four favorite leafs) played like a bonehead -- i
 saw him personally screw up at least 2 good scoring opportunities, and
 then he got that *bonehead* 5-minute major high-sticking penalty.
  
 cullen has gotten stronger since his return from injury a hand-full of
 games ago and he played a good game.  if the other players on his line
 can smarten up, that line should do okay.  clark's got to get tough --
 he's got to intimidate and go for the net.  send clark up the left 
 wing over the blue line a couple times... his patented wrist shot will
 put some numbers on the board... and pearson... heck, maybe he should
 be benched.
  
 i hate to repeat grapes, but where the heck was foligno?  zezel can't
 do all the checking himself -- and get macllwain on the move... we 
 need some speed out there!  keep potvin in net, he did okay 
 considering... although (like i said a couple weeks ago) potvin 
 messed up in a couple games in the ahl playoffs last year -- he can 
 easily do it again.
  
 my prediction last week was toronto in 7 -- that the games det wins 
 will be blow-outs and the game tor wins will be close -- i still stand
 by that.
  
 don't fret, leafs fans, in order to win in 7, the other team has to
 win 3! :-)
  
 burns is going to make some magic -- he'll mix up some lines.  match
 the wings line-per-line.  he'll have his team checking hard, and he'll
 never let them get out-numbered in their own end.  the leafs will win
 wednesday night... and will take 1 or their home games (probably the
 first one).
  
 stephen leaf legge
 slegge@kean.ucs.mun.ca
 
 