
   to those who are wondering what is happening in minnesota:
 
   from what i have seen in the local news (tv and newspaper), various people 
 in the area are trying to get a new hockey team.  a columnist for the st. 
 paul "pioneer press" wrote an article giving the "inside scoop" on the 
 issue.  there are three local sites competing for a team and three possible 
 candiates to move to the twin cities.  first the sites: target center, civic 
 center (st. paul), and yes, even the met center.  the columnist was pretty 
 confident that minnesota will get a team, and that the target center will 
 ultimately win out.  he argued, however, that the competition from the other 
 two sites will delay the process considerably.  without the 
 inter-site competition, the columnist (sorry, i can't remember his name) 
 believes that minnesota would have a team by the 1994-95 season.  also, 
 because of the situation with the timberwolves, things will be delayed 
 until (unless) the city of minneapolis takes over the target center.  
 however, they are unlikely to do so until the met center is destroyed, 
 because the city will lose money if there is competition from the met for 
 conventions and short-term events (even with hockey at target).  to add to 
 this mess, a study (6 to 12 months) is going to be conducted on the future 
 viability of the met center, which obviously delays the process even 
 further.  i hope that the study is cancelled, which will have the effect of 
 knocking the met center out of the running and perhaps encouraging 
 minneapolis to take over the target center sooner. the city would be
 be even more encourged if the wrecking ball is taken to the met, 
 which may happen.
 	regarding possible candidates, the three teams are 
 hartford, tampa bay, and new jersey.  i would prefer the devils (minnesota "
 ice demons?") although the lightning may have potential.  although it hasn't 
 been announced yet, it looks like 6 neutral site games will be played at the 
 target center next year.  apparently the devils are interested in playing in 
 as many of those six games as possible, and i wouldn't be surprised to see 
 hartford and tampa show up there either.	so, minnesota may end up 
 getting another team, but it may take a few years.
 
 	
 	go sabres!
 	
 	robert andolina (former buffalonian living in minneapolis)
 	randolin@polisci.umn.edu
 