
 in article <21apr93.05114955.0057@vm1.mcgill.ca> ccdb <ccdb@musica.mcgill.ca> writes:
 >quebec dominated habs for first 2 periods and only roy kept
 >this one from being rout, although he did blow 2nd goal.
 >canadians showed up in third but nords were playing dump &
 >pull back most of the time.
 
 do you notice that _nobody_ on the team is willing to take charge?
 a dominant defenceman would be nice....too bad schneider got hurt.
 he reminds me of chris chelios sometimes.  speaking of chelios, i 
 wonder if serge savard feels like a moron for making that trade.
 i also wish we still had corson.
 
 rob ramage on the ice is less useful than a gatorade bottle on the 
 bench.
 
 vincent damphousse has decided to take a vacation, apparently.  i have
 no idea why demers is playing denis savard on the checking line with
 carbonneau.  savard is skating well, and is one of the only dangerous
 canadiens in quebec's zone with the puck.  too bad nobody is in front
 most of the time.
 
 do you also notice that in the defensive zone, not a single nordique
 gets knocked down?  it's disgusting.  we also have lebeau (5'10", 172)
 getting pasted at centre ice by wolaninn (6'3", 205) with no reply
 from the team, except to yell for a penalty.  dammit, denis savard 
 threw the best (only?) montreal hit of the night when he knocked
 sundin off-balance.  when denis savard is your team's enforcer, there's
 big trouble someplace...
 
 >hextall made some good saves but
 >really this one was lost in first period when nords scored 3
 >& could have had 5, plus another 4 in 2nd.
 
 aside from that second goal, roy did stand on his head.  the third 
 period at least provided something to look forward to.  habs won the
 period, imo, and i guess somebody finally came along to smack them a
 couple of times in the second intermission to remind them that a game
 had started at 7:30.  hopefully they play that way at home.  roy made 
 the saves (we'll ignore that second goal), so now it's up to the team.
 
 
 --
 dchhabra@stpl.ists.ca
 
 
 p.s.  to all those grant fuhr doubters.....buffalo 4, boston 0.  
 'nuff said.  and did somebody say dale hunter was a playoff choker?
 i'd rethink that position :-)
 
 
 