
 
     the tv coverage of the playoffs is fucking ridicules.  overtime time games
     that are not shown?  what the hell kind of shit is this?  if that would
     have happened to the flyers(if they were in the damn playoffs to begin
     with) while i was watching, i would have gone throught the roof!
 
     however, everybody is getting pissed off at espn, but they are not the
     ones to blame.  they have prior contracts that they just can't simply break
     whenever they want to.  the n.h.l. is to blame.  when they signed the
     deal with espn, they had to know of this.  they had to know shit like this
     would happen since they wouldn't have complete priority.  the n.h.l.
     should be feeling the heat that is being thrown at espn.  how can the
     n.h.l. do this to its fans? how dare they.  we are the ones that make the
     damn league exist and they can't even televise complete playoff games for us to
     watch!  they more i write about this, the more pissed off i get.  we must
     let the n.h.l. know that  we expect a little better than this.  if anybody
     out there knows how to go about doing this, let me and everybody else know.
 
     well i had to get that off my chest and while i'm at it....
 
     mario is the michael jordan of hockey.  all that fucker has to do is fall
     on the ice and the closet guy to him gets at least 2.  last night in the
     3rd game between nj and pitt, he was being pushed while skating across the
     front of the goal while trying to get a shot off.  the guy on him was
     doing a good job, so he got off a weak shot, but then he decided to fall
     to the ice. then the fucking ref(van helloamend?) called the guy for
     holding.  they replayed the play, and my roomate(who is clueless about
     hockey) wanted to know what the nj guy did to get a call, because it was so fucking obvious the nj player
     had both hands on his stick, and no, he did not trip him.  it is simple,
     mario gets touched, he falls to the ice, automatic 2.  but the thing that
     really pissed me off is, pitt scored the 3rd or 4th goal, i don't remember,
     on the resulting pp and
     eventually won 4-3.  his diving/calls makes a huge difference in the
     outcome of a game.
 
     they gotta stop the damn holding and interference that is so fucking
     obvious. that is not hockey.  it allows inferior players to bring down the
 level of the better players, and allows inferior teams to beat better ones.
 this has pissed me off for many years now, and it has improved somewhat.
 however, during the playoffs and 3rd periods, the damn refs must misplace
 their balls, because they sure don't make any calls that show that they got
 any.
 
     all agreeing or disagreeing replies are welcomed.
 
     steve
 
     
 