
 gballent@hudson.uvic.ca (greg  ballentine) writes:
 
 
 >in article 735571987@vela.acs.oakland.edu, ragraca@vela.acs.oakland.edu (randy a. graca) writes:
 
 >>gballent@vancouver.uvic.ca (greg  ballentine) writes:
 
 [stuff deleted]
 
 >when quinn took over vancouver- several years ago, not last year, they 
 >regularily missed the playoffs.  i can't recall if they missed the playoffs
 >the year before his hiring but they probably did.  quinn has improved the
 >team from non-playoff calibre to a serious contender.
 
 >when murray took over in detroit, the were about a .500 team that was a
 >contender to win the norris division and possibly even a stanley cup
 >contender.
 
 the last year before bryan murray took over, the wings did not make the
 playoffs.  while they had been considered a possible contender when jacques
 demers first arrived, in his last two years they were, respectively,
 embarrassed in the first round by chicago, and then failed to make the 
 playoffs (at a time, a might add, when there were only five teams in the
 norris).
 
 it's true that vancouver did not make the playoffs for many a year before 
 quinn came, but in those years the smythe division was a lot--i mean *a lot*--
 tougher division than the norris, also known as the "snorris", division.
 vancouver had to play edmonton and calgary, both very legitimate stanley
 cup contenders, eight times a year, while detroit got to play such 
 powerhouses as toronto and minnesota.  now, edmonton is hardly even a force
 in the league, and the smythe even has the mighty san jose sharks, while
 over this same period of time in which vancouver was improving, so was 
 everybody in the norris (except st. louis).  detroit had to improve just
 to keep up with the competition in their division.  they had to improve *a
 lot* to get better than their competition in the norris.
 
 bryan murray inherited a team with very little talent.  for really good
 players, they had yzerman, burr, and probert, and that was about it.  (and
 no doubt some will dispute whether burr and probert were that good). the
 rest were either very green rookies or washed up veterans.  the only reason
 they got as far as they did in the years before murray came was due to the
 coaching of demers, who, at least at first, got every last ounce of effort
 possible out of his team.  then, even his coaching began to degrade.
 
 >so quinn has improved his team more than murray has since taking over as a gm.
 >quinn is one example of a better gm than murray.
 
 there are a number of reasons why detroit wasn't in as bad a shape standings
 wise when murray took over as vanc. was when quinn took over, some of which
 i outlined above, but murray did not have any better personnel to work with
 at the outset than did quinn, with the exception of yzerman.  and one player
 cannot alone make a team into a stanley cup contender, as i'm sure everyone
 reading this will agree.  
 
 we'll be able to see better which team is really the most improved when they
 face each other in the conference final (assuming they don't get knocked out,
 like last year).
 
 >gregmeister
 
 --randy
 
 