
 in article <mfpirbo00wbli1ispc@andrew.cmu.edu>
 "william k. willis" <ww1a+@andrew.cmu.edu> writes:
  
 >
 >
 >     as a person who has rarely even seen don cherry and doesn't know
 >anything about him, i don't know whether it is just this area
 >(pittsburgh) of the usa that is "deprived" of his broadcasts or whether
 >he's a canadian thing altogether.  seriously, what is he all about?  i
 >know he was a coach at one time, and from the volume of posts about him,
 >someone surely is getting a steady diet of him somehow, but my question
 >is, what is the deal with him?  secondly, are the comments of his that i
 >read about on the net merely flame bait, or do people actually take him
 >seriously?  i gotta tell you, from what i see, he really sounds like an
 >ass.  let me know - maybe i'm missing something.
 >
  
  well, here in detroit we get to see and hear don cherry quite regularly.
 the detroit area picks up hockey night in canada from cbc (ch 9) in
 windsor where we see don cherry's coaches corner between periods. we
 also get to see don cherry's grapevine just before the game. the
 grapevine is a hockey talk show where don talks to a player or coach
 about what else: hockey.  it's actually a pretty good show and don
 isn't as annoying as he is on coaches corner.  i think this is were
 don got his nickname 'grapes' but i'm not sure.  don use to coach the
 boston bruins.  i don't know exactly when that was.  could someone fill
 me in on this info?
   a local radio station here in detroit (wllz) talks to don every tuesday
 morning.  personally, i've had my fill of donny!  he really pisses me off
 sometimes.  during the detroit-toronto game monday night on cbc, don gave
 high praise to doug gilmour, saying he was a two-way player and not
 just a designated goal scorer and that he is probably the best player
 in the game because of that.  that's fine and i agree that gilmour
 is a good two-way player but he said the exact same thing about yzerman
 about a month ago on a local radio talk show.  what gives?
   it seems like he just has a set speech that he changes when he goes from
 city to city.
   don cherry:  'i think <insert star player name for city that he is in>
               is the best two-way player in the league today.'
  
   there have been other times (can't remember exactly what he said) that he
 basically changed his opinions to match the audience he was talking to.
   someone here on the net said something about how don criticized mario
 lemieux but when the time comes for don to broadcast the cup playoffs
 from the civic center (yes, i think the pens will make it out of the
 wales conference) don will apologize left and right for his remarks about
 lemieux.  in my opinion, he is an ass.  and i won't change my opinion
 if i'm in a different city.
   sorry, if this didn't answer your question better but i just had to get
 this off my chest.
  
 laurie marshall
 wayne state university
 detroit, michigan
 go wings!!!
 