
 
 
 
 here's a summary of don cherry's coach's corner from april 23, 1993.
 it was taken from a tape delay of a vancouver-winnipeg game, but
 it was filmed during the toronto-detroit game that night. i think
 it was also shown during the calgary-la game. 
 
 (warning... anti-fighting people may want to skip this post.)
 
 topics
 ------
 
 don's tie, doug gilmour, wings/leafs, quebec/montreal, boston/buffalo,
 wendel clark, fighting and stickwork.
 
 episode summary
 ---------------
 
 once again, the episode started with a shot of don's tie... this
 was a different tie than last time. don pointed out some of the
 characters on the tie, but gave them different names... felix the
 cat (sylverster), maclean (daffy duck), etc.
 
 ron maclean asked don what he thought of the current wings-leafs
 game. don thought it was good. burns told the leaf players "they
 won in their building, we're going to win in ours".
 
 don then began to praise gilmour again. don pointed out that gilmour
 has never got less than 2 points or a goal in any game since he
 got 5 points in a game against st. louis.  (don also claims that
 he gave a lot of encouragement to gilmour, which was partly responsible
 for his good play.) several clips were then shown of gilmour
 from the series... a hit on constantinov, and a pass to andrewchuk
 resulting in a goal.
 
 on the game itself, the wings were taking a lot of penalties in
 the first period. the wings have enough talent to score short handed
 however, and when the leafs get a power play, coach burns tells
 the leaf players "don't let them score on you".
 
 ron brought up the previous quebec-montreal game. [note: montreal
 won that game in overtime, despite having a possible game winner
 disqualified because it was batted in with a high stick.] don
 thought the high stick was obvious, even without the use of
 instant replay.
 
 on the buffalo-boston series [note: buffalo is currently winning
 the series 3-0], don gave full credit to goaltender grant fuhr.
 fuhr should be getting 1/2 the team's playoff checks for his
 play.
 
 wendel clarke has recently been criticized for his performance
 during the detroit-toronto series. don defended him, by saying
 that he can't play the way he should, because of the league's
 new rules. "this used to be a rough and tough league... now its
 all hack and slash." don lays the blame on gil stien for the
 problems.
 
 don's opinions on fighting and stickwork are shared by wings
 gm and coach bryan murray. a clip from a news conference by murray
 was shown, in which murray made statements claiming the elimination
 of fighting increases stickwork. don also read a newspaper article
 in which murray makes the following statements: "players don't fight
 because they're afraid of getting thrown out of the game as instigator.
 instead, they settle grudges by getting their sticks and slicing
 each other. is this what the fans want to see? i guarantee there
 wouldn't be as many slashes if fighting were kept in the game."
 
 don warned league commisioner gary bettman to "smarten up" with
 fighting in hockey. he went on to say that before, there used
 to be one guy cut with a high stick in a series. now, with no fights,
 someone gets cut every period.
 
 rating
 ------
 typical anti-fighting posturing, but here don's opinion is supported
 by murray.
 
 i'd give it a 7.0 out of 10.
 