
 in article <1993apr25.222739.16828@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca> maynard@ramsey.cs.laurentian.ca (roger maynard) writes:
 >in <1993apr25.214053.21752@sol.ctr.columbia.edu> phoenix@startide.ctr.columbia.edu (ali lemer) writes:
 >
 >
 >>dear mr. bettman -
 >
 (ali's letter deleted for brevity)
 
 >[...] (roger's acid-laced response removed)
 >maybe we should get together and establish some kind of mandatory maturity
 >level to keep some of this stuff off of the air.
 
 roger,
 your responses might just exclude you from sharing your opinions,
 then.  you see, the same rights ali has to mail her letter to the nhl
 are the same ones that let you post replies that mow her down like
 wheat at harvest-time.  she never said she represented the entire
 internet or the entire group rec.sport.hockey.  she has every right to
 state her opinion along with those of the fifty or sixty or
 hundred-odd folk who've agreed to allow her to list their names on the
 bottom of it.  you may not agree with it.  fine.  i really don't care
 enough about the name change to care.  your name isn't attached to it,
 so why moan and complain?  if you felt her words were leading, well,
 you're free to feel that way and take exception, but manners never
 hurt.  i personally disagree and feel her generalizations were fine
 (i have the right to think and say that, too).  ali's under no
 compunction to change a single word.  now, while you're free to
 disagree with every word she wrote, to tear apart her character is
 uncalled for.  i'm posting this as a form of public reprimand.  if you
 tear down ali's integrity and character publicly, you'll get chastised
 publicly in return.  would it have been so hard to say, "ali, please
 be a bit more specific in your description, the way i've read it
 indicates you're stating my view also, and that's simply not true.
 i'd really like to see a disclaimer noting that you don't mean the
 entire internet or the entire r.s.h. group attached to it, despite
 your intent to list names at the bottom.  thanks.  cordially as
 always," &c.  calling her a moron and an asshole just reduces the
 weight of your words and the opinions of their author in the eyes of
 myself, and possibly others.  
 
 oh, and ali, nice to see someone standing up for something, even if
 it's not something i personally advocate.  :-)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 valerie hammerl 	       john sr. would lift pat over the boards, grab 
 hammerl@acsu.buffalo.edu       his hand, and start running around the outside,
 v085pwpz@ubvms.cc.buffalo.edu  faster and faster.  "i wanted to learn how to 
 get that feeling, and the only way was to learn how to skate."  p. lafontaine
 