
 items for sale.....
 
 this package was bought throught a award give-away company. i attempted
 to cancel my order before i received the package, but i was too late and
 the company refused to take the package back for refund. i know the truth
 which i would never get my $697 back, but i wish to get my money back as
 close as possible. here is the describtion of the package...
 
 nishika 3d camera	it takes very good picture, never been opended
 			or used. it came with wide angle flesh, carring
 			case, film, and a instruction video. it has four
 			lens and created a 3d effect on a regular 35mm
 			film.
 
 jewelry			it came with the package as additional gift.
 
 bahama vacation voucher	the voucher is good for two rt airfare to freeport.
 			the users get a special hotel rate of $27 per-person
 			per-night. meals, ground transfer, hotel tax is
 			_not_ included.
 
 las vegas, reno, orlando	the voucher provides one rt airfare, and
 				hotel accomodation for 3 days/ 2 nights.
 				meals, ground transfer, hotel tax is not
 				included. the voucher is good for all 3
 				locations, but you can't travel to all 3
 				places at once.
 
 cancun, mexico		the voucher provides one rt airfare, and hotel
 			accomodation for 3 days / 2 nights. meals and
 			ground transfer, hotel tax is not included as
 			usual.
 
 i paid $697 for the whole package. so try not to be cold-blooded when you
 make your offer. details would be provided by request. i do wish to sell
 the whole package at once. so if you are just looking for the vacation
 vouchers, i don't care if you sell the camera to other for a higher pric
 if you are interested in the camera, you could treat the vacation vouchers
 as gift.
 
 if you receive a letter in your mail box which says that you are selected
 to be part of the sweeptake and you have at least one out of five awards. 
 trust me, you would get the exactly the same package as i did. there is 
 only one award which will be given away. so don't bother even to call them 
 back, if you are really interested, you could get it from me for a cheaper 
 price. and you could receive the package within a week ( i waited three 
 months to get my first and final packages). also, they would ask for your
 credit card number and you have to pay for the interest to the credit 
 card company. so why spend more than you should when you could get them
 from me for a cheaper price.
 
 if you are interested, please reply to me as soon as posible. i really
 wish to get this over with. make me an offer, if i am confortable with
 your offer, i would send the package by u.p.s. the next day morning.
 more details could be given if you wish.
 
 please contact me at koutd@hirama.hiram.edu
 
 douglas kou
 hiram college
 e-mail address--- koutd@hirama.hiram.edu
 
 