
 i would like to sell some software. shipping is $3 per order - 1 or more
 games in the continental u.s.  $6 to canada.  contact me for shipping 
 to other locations.
 
 contraption zack                                $20
 	perfect condition. unregistered & all docs/disks/packaging
 	a 3-d puzzle game with great animated graphics.  your tools for
 	fixing up a manufacturing plant are hidden throughout the levels
 	and you must solve puzzles to get the tools and then use the tools
 	to fix the machines.  the levels are huge and span many screens.
 	the graphics are cartoony and humorous.  (256 color vga,mcga,
 	adlib,soundblaster,roland,3.5")
 
 legend of kyrandia                              $30
 	perfect condition. unregistered & all docs/disks/packaging
 	an adventure where you are the unknowing heir to the throne of 
 	the kingdom of kyrandia.  an evil jester has murdered your parents, 
 	the king and queen, and attempted to take control of the kingdom, 
 	only to be thwarted by a spell cast upon him by your grandfather 
 	and three other magic users.  you must travel to find each of the 
 	magic users to gain use of an amulet that will help you to defeat 
 	the jester.  beautiful graphics and a great soundtrack. (vga,mcga,
 	adlib,sound blaster,soundblaster pro,mt-32/lapc-1,3.5")
 
 spirit of excalibur by virgin mastertronic      $15
 	good condition. all docs/disks/packaging.
 	a fantasy game combining role-playing, adventure, and combat
 	simulation.  you are the heir to the throne of britain after arthur
 	has died.  you must re-unite the land under your rule and then
 	defend it against an invading army from the north. (ega, tandy, mcga,
 	vga, sound cards, 5.25")
 
 loom                                            $15
 	perfect condition.  unregistered & all docs/disks/packaging.
 	received a computer gaming world award for artistic achievement.
 	an adventure game where you play the role of a young weaver of
 	musical spells.  you must save your fellow weavers from oblivion
 	by traveling through the land, casting spells, learning new spells
 	befriending people you meet, and foiling an evil plot.  all
 	point and click -- no typing.  every action in the game involves
 	casting your musical spells. (vga,ega,cga,mcga,tandy,adlib,cms sound,
 	5.25")
 
 dark seed					$35
 	perfect condition, used very little. unregistered & all docs/disks/
 	packaging.  an adventure based on the surrealistic and macabre 
 	artwork of h.r. giger -- the inspiration for alien, alien iii, and  
 	poltergeist ii.  you have just bought an old victorian house
 	at a bargain in a secluded town.  you find that there is a portal
 	to a dark, sinister world in your house and a plot against the
 	world as you know it.  you must save yourself and your world from
 	a horrible fate.  gorgeous and gory high resolution graphics.
 	(vga,adlib,soundblaster,3.5")
 
 conquest of japan by impressions		$30
 	brand new, used only once. unregistered & all docs/disks/packaging.
 	simulation of samurai conquest. you play the role of a japanese
 	daimyo - a lord.  you control five cities on japan's main island,
 	honshu.  each provides money for you to buy armies, with which
 	you must conquer your enemy.  battles are fought with impressions'
 	miniature system.  you watch the individual samurai, mounted samurai,
 	spearmen, archers, and arquebusiers. (vga, adlib, 3.5" & 5.25")
 