
 items for sale.....
 
 nishika 3d camera	it takes very good picture, never been opended
 			or used. it came with wide angle flesh, carring
 			case, film, and a instruction video. it has four
 			lens and created a 3d effect on a regular 35mm
 			film.
 
 jewelry			it came with the package as additional gift.
 
 bahama vacation voucher	the voucher is good for two rt airfare to freeport.
 			the users get a special hotel rate of $27 per-person
 			per-night. meals, ground transfer, hotel tax is
 			_not_ included.
 
 las vegas, reno, orlando	the voucher provides one rt airfare, and
 				hotel accomodation for 3 days/ 2 nights.
 				meals, ground transfer, hotel tax is not
 				included. the voucher is good for all 3
 				locations, but you can't travel to all 3
 				places at once.
 
 cancun, mexico		the voucher provides one rt airfare, and hotel
 			accomodation for 3 days / 2 nights. meals and
 			ground transfer, hotel tax is not included as
 			usual.
 
 
 asking for $500 or best offer...
 
 i paid $697 for the whole package. and it is too late for me to get the 
 refund. i would sell it for $500 for the whole package. details could be 
 provided by request. i do wish to sell the whole package at once. so if 
 you are just looking for the vacation vouchers, i don't care if you 
 sell the camera to other for a higher price. if you are interested in 
 the camera, you could treat the vacation vouchers as gift.
 
 some of you might receive a letter in your mail box which says that you 
 are selected to be part of the sweeptake and you have at least one out 
 of five awards. trust me, you would get the exactly the same package as 
 i did. there is only one award which will be given away. so don't 
 bother even to call them back, if you are really interested, you could 
 get it from me for a cheaper price. and you could receive the package 
 within a week ( i waited three months to get my first and final packages). 
 also, they would ask for your credit card number and you have to pay 
 for the interest to the credit card company. so why spend more than you
 should when you could get them from me for a cheaper price.
 
 if you are interested, please reply to me as soon as posible. i really
 wish to get this over with. make me an offer, if i am confortable with
 your offer, i would send the package by u.p.s. the next day morning.
 more details could be given if you wish.
 
 please contact me at koutd@hirama.hiram.edu
 
 douglas kou
 hiram college
 e-mail address--- koutd@hirama.hiram.edu
 
 