
 
 
 im pleased to announce a new revolutionary device that allows you to
 copy super nintendo and genesis games to floppy disk.  then later
 play from floppy disk with out the cart.  this is a independent system
 that interfaces with your snes or genesis.
 
 other features
 
 *store multiple copies of cart. save game to disk (up to 32 saves to disk)
 
 *save your position in snes games that don't norally have a save feature
 
 *switch your snes into slow motion mode
 
 *use codes to get unlimited lives and other "cheats" in many games.
 
 the multi-game hunter is capable of copying both snes and genesis game 
 carts to standard ibm pc formated floppy disks. the games can them be played directly from the floppy disk. note:it does not require a pc
 
 full color on-screen icons and menus make operation for the mgh so simple
 that even a child could operate it.  options can be selected simply by choosing the selection with the game controller and pressin a button.
 
 add a game saver adapter to your system for more game playing power.  the
 game saver allows you to save your position to disk in almost any snes game!
 reload your saved position any time.  enable it's slow-motion feature for those really tough games.
 
 for more control over game play, we have the game finger software.  the
 game finger software can give you unlimited lives or warp you to new levels in
 your favorite snes games.  bring back to life those really frustrating games.
 
 also if you know how to program 6518 6502 asm code you can create your own
 snes demos or games.
 
 mgh includes
 
 base unit,disk drive (high density 3.5 drive), 16megabit ram, 256 sram,
 all adapters and comes ready to hook up to your gameing system.
 
 only thing not included is the power supply which you can pick up at
 radio shack.
 
 all for only $500
 
 disclamer
 
 the customer assumes all responsibility for the use and or misuse of this 
 product.  we in no way encourage nor condone the use of this product for
 software piracy.  this device is intended soley for making legal backup
 copies.  neither nintendo or sega has giving official endorsement of the 
 products described herein.
 
 email me for more info or to make a purchase
 .
 
 
 