
 
 for sale...:
  
         three software packages for ibm pc and compatible computers:
  
  
                 o wing commander deluxe edition
                 o includes secret missions 1 & 2
                 o includes all original packaging, manuals
                   and disks
                 o includes registration card (so you can
                   send it in and register it in your name)
                 o original price for wing commander: $69.95
                 o original price for secret missions i: $29.95
                 o original price for secret missions ii: $29.95
                 o total original price: $129.85
                 o my asking price for all these of these
                   games together is $65.00
                 o wing commander and the secret missions is a
                   battle and flight simulator set in space.  it
                   includes all the standard fun things about
                   flight simulators, like taking off and landing
                   on carriers, flying -- of course -- and better
                   yet, it is also a battle simulator.  it is a
                   lot of fun, indeed.
                 o an ibm pc or compatible with at least 640k, and
                   dual floppies or a hard drive is required.
  
  
                 o winway resume for windows
                 o includes all original packaging, manuals
                   and disks
                 o original price: $50.00
                 o my asking price: $35.00
                 o winway resume is a resume writing program for
                   windows.  it is an excellent program (it got
                   me a job!) and running under the window's
                   interface makes it very, very easy to use.  all
                   you do is answer a few questions, and print out
                   the results.  in just a few minutes, you have a
                   beautifully and professionally designed resume.
                 o an ibm pc with windows 3.0 or later installed
                   and 1 mb of free hard disk space is required.
  
  
                 o more typefaces
                 o includes all original packaging, manuals
                   and disks
                 o original price: $99.99
                 o my asking price: $30.00
                 o more typefaces is a package of three typetype
                   font families (for a total of twelve fonts) for
                   windows 3.1.  the fonts included are: marque,
                   crystal and architech, and of course italic,
                   bold and bold italic versions are included with
                   all those fonts.  because of the unique font
                   software included with the package, these fonts
                   can be used with either the morefonts typeface
                   program, adobe type manager, truetype, geoworks,
                   express publisher and coreldraw.
                 o an ibm pc with windows 3.1 and a hard disk is
                   required if you want to use the typefaces in
                   truetype format.  for all other formats, an
                   ibm pc and a hard disk with one of the programs
                   listed above is required.
  
  
         if you are interested in any of these programs, please
 either leave me email or call kirk peterson at (303) 494-7951,
 anytime.  if i don't answer, leave me a message on my answering
 machine and i'll call you back.  i will pay the shipping on all
 of the programs to anywhere in the continental united states.
  
         thank you!
  
 
 