
 
 	i'm selling a bunch of my older 12" records off.  they are
 sitting around collecting dust and i never use them.  i have used each
 of these records, once, maybe twice if i didn't record the song i
 wanted correctly the first time.  these records are in perfect
 condition.  please email me with the records you would want and what
 you think a fair price is.  i will probably give deals, the more
 records you buy.  kinda capatalist isn't it.  well give me a yell at 
 pagorm@iastate.edu with any comments.  
 						see ya 
 						paul
 	i have recieved a few questions as to what 12" are.  i guess i
 should elaborate.  (???!!!! am i that old?)  they are just
 maxi-singles on wax.  if i am correct most beat mixers still use this
 form of record.  this is probably the kind of person interested in
 this colllect or parts of it. any questions call (515) 294-3737.
 thanks and see ya.	
 artist			song
 
 soul ii soul		get a life (back to life)
 			back to life
 d mob			put your hands together (a rhythm from within)
 			c'mon get my lovin'
 janet jackson		rhythm nation
 			black cat
 milli vanilli		blame it on the rain (girl i'm gonna miss you)
 maxi priest		close to you (i know love)
 quincy jones		i'll be good to you 
 inxs			suicide blonde (body wants u tonight)
 babyface		my kinda girl
 mc hammer		turn this mutha out (ring 'em)
 madonna			keep it together
 			vogue
 lisa stansfield		this is the right time
 			all around the world (affection)
 stevie b		love & emotion
 depeche mode		personal jesus (dangerous)
 			policy of truth (kaleid)
 			enjoy the silence (mephisto)
 england/neworder	world in motion.....
 snap			ooops up (believe the hype)
 			the power
 kyper			tic tac toe
 rebel mc		street tuff
 rob base		turn it out
 mr. lee			get busy
 monie love		grandpa's party (i'll drive you crazy)
 the time 		jerk out
 black box		everybody everybody
 bbd			do me
 johnny gill		rub you the right way
 b-52's			roam (bushfire)
 redhead kingpin		do the right thing
 digital underground	humpty dance
 technotronic		this beat is technotronic (pump up the jam, tough)
 jane child		don't wanna fall in love (world lullabye)
 young mc		i come off
 			bust a move (got more rhymes)
 2 in a room		wiggle it 
 glenn medeiros		she ain't worth it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 