
 
 computer equipment garage sale:
 
 i've finally decided to clean out my closets and get rid of some of the stuff
 that is broken or not being used by me.  i've put together a list and
 indicated what i think each item is worth.  this is just my estimate, and i
 am very open to any offers, including trades.  i'm currently looking for
 some cd-roms that will work with a mac cd rom player cd caddies, hd floppy 
 disks, any used macintosh software, a 387-33mhz co-processor, or basically 
 anything you have lying around (cans of soup, the neighbor's cat, etc...)  
 make me an offer, no offer will be overlooked... 
 i really want to get rid of this stuff...
 
 ok, here's the list:
 
 52 meg 3.5" scsi hard drive.  conner model #cp-3150.  i bought this from a guy
 	at a swap meet to use with my macintosh.  unfortunately, i can't seem 
 	to get it to work with the scsi controller in my computer.  the
 	guy tested it with his pc, and printed out a copy of the norton disk 
 	doctor report which says it has no bad sectors. (i'll send you a copy) 
 	i was dumb enough not to get his phone number, so i can't return it to 
 	him. the drive has many jumpers on it, (which i don't know how to set) 
 	so maybe that's the problem.  i was quite disappointed that it didn't
 	work so i'm trying to minimize my losses.	~$45
 
 52 meg 3.5" scsi hard drive. conner model #cp-3150.  same situation as above.
 	i bought both of these drives from the same guy.  despite the different
 	model numbers they are the same exact drive.  same report from ndd
 	(i have one for each drive) will be included.	~$45
 
 40 meg sony 3.5" scsi hard drive.  sony model #srd2040a.  the drive mechanism 
 	is completely trashed.  this hard drive was in my computer (mac se) and
 	had a stiction problem.  well, repeated banging on the side of the
 	computer resulted in a head crash (yes, metal scraping metal) which
 	was not too pleasant to listen to.  still the scsi controller
 	card is in good working order, and can be used for parts, or a 
 	project.	~$20
 
 65 meg seagate 5.25" hh scsi hard drive.  model #st-277n.  i originally bought
 	this drive, because it had a small stiction problem, and i though that
 	i could fix it.  well i determined that the drive mechanism was fine,
 	and that it was a controller problem.  (motor controller wasn't sending
 	proper signals.)  well, after taking the controller off the drive, 
 	looking at it, and putting it back together, i realized that i
 	accidentally severed one of the small flat cables that connect the 
 	drive to the controller.  i tried to solder it, but i'm not that good
 	at soldering so i couldn't do it.  worked perfectly before i messed
 	up.  i used it as a temporary drive when the sony (above) crashed on
 	me.  also loaded the drive with about twenty mac applications,
 	worth well over $1000.  (claris cad, ms word 5.0, think c,
 	excel, and many others) 
 	i think all it needs is a resoldering of that cable.  you also get all
 	the software on the drive. (if you can accept being a pirate)  i only 
 	ask that you delete my data files from the drive.  i was really angry
 	when i broke that connection, and then couldn't fix it.  i just don't 
 	have time to play with it any more.	~$65
 
 at&t isdn 7500 modem.  this is for use on digital phone systems.  if you know
 	what this is or would like technical information on it, let me know.  i
 	have some tech documents on it.  is supposed to be the same thing as an
 	at&t digital phone, but without the phone part.  it seems to be in  
 	working order (passes self test perfectly ok).  i have no idea how 
 	this is worth...   let me know if you're interested.
 
 motorola 68881 coprocessor.  i haven't tested this one out yet, but if anyone 
 	is interested i will get it tested out, to make sure that it works.  i
 	had trouble using it with my accelerator board, but then i spoke to the
 	manufacturer of the board and found out it couldn't be used without 
 	another controller chip.  when i was looking around to buy one new, the
 	prices were around $100.  i will guarantee this to work.	~$65
 
 cga card.  half-length. 8-bit.  wasn't working last time i checked (although
 	i think i was using a bad monitor)	~$5
 
 5.25"	360k floppy drive.  ibm drive type 1355.  guaranteed to work, 
 	because when i took it out of the pc, it was working!		~$25
 
 5.25" 360k floppy drive.  toshiba model number nd-08de-a.  guaranteed to 
 	work.  came out of same pc as above.	~$25
 
 5.25"	floppy drives.  can't guarantee that these will work.  i don't
 	even know if they are low or high density drives.  i don't have
 	any method of testing them.
 		panasonic model number: ju-455-5 acg.  there's another
 			number on it: 2626-361723.
 		panasonic model number: ju-475-2 agg.  there's also
 			another number on it: h3649-101457
 		toshiba model number nd-08de.  virtually identical to the one 
 			above.
 	each drive ~$10
 
 3.5" ps/2 drive.  these things are proprietary, so i can't test it, but i
 	think it works.  not sure if it's high density or low density, but i
 	suppose someone who is looking for one would know.  model number
 	dfl413c04a.  i think these things are expensive to replace.  ~$35
 
 mfm hard drive controller cards.  i've got three of these, and i have no way
 	of testing them.  two of them are 8-bit cards, and one is a sixteen bit
 	card with a floppy controller built in.	~$10 for the 8-bits ~$15 for
 	the 16-bit card w/floppy.
 
 interesting cable.  seems to convert from a vga plug to an ega plug.  that is,
 	standard nine-pin to vga 15 pin. made by hewlett packard.  part no.
 	d1181-80020		~$10
 
 
 
 i've sold stuff like this before, and it was a huge success, with many 
 satisfied people trading or bartering stuff they didn't need anymore.  i 
 usually ship through the u.s. postal service (haven't had any problems yet) 
 and the shipping costs will be split or negotiated.
 
 well, that's all folks.  as i said before, no offer will be refused.  if you 
 can convince me to give ocit to you instead of throwing it out, try!  i hate
 to throw away stuff...
 
 
 -wayne
 
 wdempsey@athena.mit.edu
 (617)-225-9349
 
 
 
 