
 
 ensoniq sq-80 cross-wave synthesizer:
 i have an sq-80 for sale.  the sq-80 is a powerful performance
 oriented synth with a limited on-board sequencer.  i bought it because
 it has a very large timbral repertoire;  it seems to do meaty analog
 synth sounds as well as sounds that are considerably more "digital".
 below are a list of features extracted from the owner's manual:
   o eight-voice polyphonic poly-timbral synthesizer, capable of
     playing eight different sounds at once, with dynamic stereo
     panning for each voice
   o voice section employing cross-wave synthesis;  combine different
     attack and sustain wave segments to create complex, dynamic sounds
   o 75 sampled waves (includes a drumset) serve as the sound source
   o dynamic voice allocation:  each sequencer track/midi channel has
     access to all eight voices
   o a full-featured midi controller keyboard capable of sending eight
     midi program and volume changes at once.  keyboard is velocity
     sensitive, and transmits/receives velocity and polyphonic aftertouch.
   o powerful matrix modulation scheme allows a very wide range of 
     modulation sources and routings.
   o a 3.5" floppy disk drive which writes/reads ordinary ds/dd disks
     allows fast and reliable storage of up to 600 sequences and up to
     1728 sound patches on a single floppy disk.  also has a ram-cart slot
     for patches that is compatible with esq-1 ram-carts.
   o does sysex dumps to its floppy disk for any sysex capable midi device
   o 80 character fluorescent display and user-friendly "page-driven"
     programming scheme provides a fairly humane user interface
   o stereo line-outs, and stereo headphone jack for private listening
   o sound programs and sequences are upwardly compatible with the esq-1
     so that sounds and sequences created for the esq-1 can be played on
     the sq-80.
 
 this sq-80 has been the main midi controller in my studio for quite a while
 now.  it has performed ably in that role, and has also been a heavily
 used sound source at the same time.  the sq-80 seems to have been designed
 with this role in mind, and it works very well with my software sequencer
 (wincake) in its multitimbral mode.
 
 >from a synthesis point of view, this machine is a hybrid.  it uses looped
 short samples (there are 75 of them) as sources, then these waves
 are processed with a sophisticated dcf-dca arrangement.  the sq-80
 is capable of great things because of its 4-pole analog lowpass filter.
 simply put, it makes fabulous analog synth sounds.  but unlike most
 good analog synths, it has a very thorough midi implementation so that it
 works very well with a midi sequencer.  what i really like most about this
 thing is that it is capable of making a very wide range of sounds.
 this sq-80 is about 5 years old (mfg. date 1/21/88).  it does have
 an 8-track sequencer, but like most on-board sequencers, it is a pain
 to use so i have avoided it.
 
 reason for sale:
 i am selling my sq-80 because i recently joined forces with another individual
 here in boston, and we have more keyboards than space to put them.  i
 recommend it for someone who is getting started in sequencing and needs a
 powerful but economical master keyboard.
 
 pricing and terms:
 i paid $1300.00 for this synth a few years ago.  i am willing to accept
 $650.00 (average r.m.m.s asking price is $733.00).  i will include a bunch of 
 patches on sq-80 floppy disks for the buyer of this synth, as well as the 
 original ensoniq sq-80 owner's manual.
 
 price:    asking $650.00 (everything)
 shipping: split shipping (ups surface cod) anywhere in the lower 48 states
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 craig vanderborgh                                         verbex voice systems
 e-mail:  craigv@rad.verbex.com                            119 russell street
 phone: (508) 486-8886                                     littleton, ma 01460
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 