A BIRD of prey at the centre of a planning row over this year’s T in the Park has seemingly returned to its nest at the festival site.
Video footage claims to show the osprey flying back to its home at Strathallan Estate in Perthshire – defying organisers who had hoped it was gone for good.
Campaigners want the presence of the osprey for force a 2500ft exclusion zone around its nest so it’s protected from festival goers.
That exclusion area would encroach onto the festival site.
Members of Strathallan T Action Group – made up of local residents opposed to the festival – claim the footage proves the festival shouldn’t be held on the site.
Councillors are expected to make a final decision next month.
Moves have previously been made – legally – to try and scare birds of prey away from the site and have included using a cherry picker near the nesting site.
 

It was hope the osprey would move elsewhere – a tactic which has angered bird protection group, RSPB Scotland.
A spokesman for them said: “We are aware that the ospreys have been reported at the nest site and indeed we have some video footage that shows one of them alighting on the nest with a stick.
This blatantly means this is now an active nest and is protected from disturbance so the cherry picker should have been removed immediately.
“I was informed that that did not take place and contacted Police Scotland to make them aware of that.
“As this nest is closer to the main festival activity, the risk that the birds will be disturbed by the festival has increased and that will be reflected in our response to the planning application.”
T in Park are disputing the footage.
A spokeswoman said: “We’ve seen a copy of the video referred to by RSPB and it does not correspond with the ongoing monitoring from our ornithologist on site.
“We are fully aware of and compliant with the legal protocol and as such, we have asked the police and RSPB to seek further information so that the video’s authenticity can be fully examined.
“We have removed the cherry picker while we wait for this information.”
 Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz: 

