 YOU would be forgiven for thinking that George RR Martin, Stephen King or Harper Lee would be topping the Amazon bestsellers list, but it’s Scottish illustrator Johanna Basford that’s creating a frenzy at the top of the book chart with her colouring books for adults. 
The Scot describes herself as “an illustrator and ink evangelist who prefers pens and pencils to pixels.”
 Johanna graduated in 2005 from the Dundonian Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art and Design with a degree in Printed Textiles. Ten years ago, she says her portfolio was “stuffed with monochrome silk screen prints and drawings”. 
 Her intricately complex hand-drawn pictures of plants decorating pages of her Secret Garden book helped sell 1.4million copies around the world and her follow-up Enchanted Forest has already shifted 226,000 copies, according to the Guardian. 
 

 High-profile fans include American actress and singer Zooey Deschanel and South Korean pop star Kim Ki-Bum, who’s 1.6million Instagram followers got a taste of Johanna’s work.
Eleanor Blatherwick, head of sales and marketing at Laurence King - the books’ small British publishers - told the paper, “It’s been crazy. The last few weeks since Enchanted Forest came out have been utter madness, but fantastic madness.
“We knew the books would be beautiful,” she said, “but we didn’t realise it would be such a phenomenal success.&quot;
 

On her blog, Johanna says: “For me, computer generated graphics can feel cold and soulless whereas hand drawing captures a sense of energy and character which no pixel can ever replicate.”
 The designer, with high-profile clients such as Channel 4 , H&amp;M, Schuh and Sony Playstation, she describes her first book, Secret Garden, as “not only a colouring book, but also an inky treasure hunt. 
“Hidden within are all kinds of creatures and curiosities to be sought. The book opens with a list of things to be found, throwing down the eye spy gauntlet. 63 beatles, 20 songbirds, 116 butterflies, 1 shark…”
Johanna's books are available from lots of independant shops as well as online via Laurence King, Amazon, Indie Bound, Powells &amp; Barnes and Noble. 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

