
 >for a while i was puzzled by the the concept of adam and eve coming to
 >know good and evil.  this is how i resolved it.  within god's universe
 >each action evokes an equal and opposite reaction.  there can be no good
 >without evil as an opposite.  so the issue is not what you do but to whom
 >you give your allegiance.  that is why, even in this sinful state, when we
 >perform an evil act while we are submitted to god he does not place that
 >sinful act to our account (rom 4:8) in the same vein you can perform all 
 >the good deeds in the book, if your life is not under god's control you are 
 >still sinning (see rom 14:23).
 
 now, take a good look at at, an tell me man, there is no christian
 devil? there is, is real, is a virus, a meme, infecting and possessing
 the good people and keep 'em from becoming human beings with emphasis on
 the being! is not a matter of good people an evil people, is all good
 people see, but some good people vexed of the christian devil. an it
 can't be burn out or lynch out or rape out. only wise up let i rise up.
 christian devil is real man, how else can you explain five hundred years
 of history, even more? can only be explained by christians invoke
 christian devil.
 
 you keep on knocking but you can't come in, i got to understand you've
 been living in sin, but walk right in and sit right down, i'll keep
 on loving you, i'll play the clown, but bend down low, let i tell you
 what i know yah
 
 i've been 'buked brothers and i've been stoned, woe, woe, woe, now i'm
 hung by a tree in the the ganging on a few, woe, woe, woe, it doesn't
 matter who the man is who lives the life he loves, it doesn't matter
 what the man does or the honest life he loves, i want somewhere, i want
 somewhere, hallelujah, hallelujah, somewhere to lay my head, woe is me
 
 only ska beat in 'eaven man
 
 stiff necked fools, you think you're cool, to deny me for simplicity, yes
 you have gone, for so long with your love for vanity now, yes you have
 got the wrong interpretation mixed up with vain imagination, so take jah
 sun and jah moon and jah rain and jah stars, and forever yes erase your
 fantasy, yeah, the lips of the righteous teach many, but fools die for
 want of wisdom, the rich man's wealth is in his city, the righteous
 wealth is in his holy place, so take jah sun and jah moon and jah rain
 and jah stars, and forever yes erase your fantasy, destruction of the
 poor is in their poverty, destruction of the soul is vanity, yeah, but i
 don't want to rule ya, i don't want to fool ya, i don't want to school
 ya, things you, you might never know about, yes you have got the wrong
 interpretation mixed up with vain, vain imagination, stiff necked fools,
 you think you're cool, to deny me for, oh simplicity
 
 love to see, when yah move in the rhythm, love to see when you're
 dancing from within, it gives great joy to feel such sweet togetherness,
 everyone's doing and they're doing their best, it remind i of the days
 in jericho, when we trodden down jericho wall, these are the days when
 we'll trod true babylon, gonna trod until babylon fall
 
 then i saw the angel with the seven seals saying, babylon throne going down
 
 we weeping and we wailing tonight
 