
 i am pleased to announce that a *revised version* of _the easy-to-read book
 of mormon_ (former title: _mormon's book_) by lynn matthews anderson is now
 available through anonymous ftp (see information below). in addition to the
 change in title, the revised etr bom has been shortened by several pages
 (eliminating many extraneous "that's" and "of's"), and many (minor) errors
 have been corrected. this release includes a simplified joseph smith story,
 testimonies of the three and eight witnesses, and a "words-to-know"
 glossary.
 
 as with the previous announcement, readers are reminded that this is a
 not-for-profit endeavor. this is a copyrighted work, but people are welcome
 to make *verbatim* copies for personal use. people can recuperate the
 actual costs of printing (paper, copy center charges), but may not charge
 anything for their time in making copies, or in any way realize a profit
 from the use of this book. see the permissions notice in the book itself
 for the precise terms.
 
 negotiations are currently underway with a mormon publisher vis-a-vis the
 printing and distribution of bound books. (sorry, i'm out of the wire-bound
 "first editions.") i will make another announcement about the availability
 of printed copies once everything has been worked out.
 
 ftp information: connect via anonymous ftp to carnot.itc.cmu.edu, then "cd
 pub" (you won't see anything at all until you do).
 
 "the easy-to-read book of mormon" is currently available in postscript and
 rtf (rich text format). (ascii, latex, and other versions can be made
 available; contact dba@andrew.cmu.edu for details.) you should be able to
 print the postscript file on any postscript printer (such as an apple
 laserwriter); let dba know if you have any difficulties. (the postscript in
 the last release had problems on some printers; this time it should work
 better.) rtf is a standard document interchange format that can be read in
 by a number of word processors, including microsoft word for both the
 macintosh and windows. if you don't have a postscript printer, you may be
 able to use the rtf file to print out a copy of the book.
 
 -r--r--r--  1 dba                   1984742 apr 27 13:12 etrbom.ps
 -r--r--r--  1 dba                   1209071 apr 27 13:13 etrbom.rtf
 
 for more information about how this project came about, please refer to my
 article in the current issue of _sunstone_, entitled "delighting in
 plainness: issues surrounding a simple modern english book of mormon."
 
 send all inquiries and comments to:
 
     lynn matthews anderson
     5806 hampton street
     pittsburgh, pa 15206
 
     dba+lynn@cs.cmu.edu
 
 