
 archive-name: space/astronaut
 last-modified: $date: 93/04/01 14:39:02 $
 
 how to become an astronaut
 
     first the short form, authored by henry spencer, then an official nasa
     announcement.
 
     q. how do i become an astronaut?
 
     a. we will assume you mean a nasa astronaut, since it's probably
     impossible for a non-russian to get into the cosmonaut corps (paying
     passengers are not professional cosmonauts), and the other nations have
     so few astronauts (and fly even fewer) that you're better off hoping to
     win a lottery. becoming a shuttle pilot requires lots of fast-jet
     experience, which means a military flying career; forget that unless you
     want to do it anyway. so you want to become a shuttle "mission
     specialist".
 
     if you aren't a us citizen, become one; that is a must.  after that,
     the crucial thing to remember is that the demand for such jobs vastly
     exceeds the supply.  nasa's problem is not finding qualified people,
     but thinning the lineup down to manageable length.	it is not enough
     to be qualified; you must avoid being *dis*qualified for any reason,
     many of them in principle quite irrelevant to the job.
 
     get a ph.d.  specialize in something that involves getting your hands
     dirty with equipment, not just paper and pencil.  forget computer
     programming entirely; it will be done from the ground for the fore-
     seeable future.  degree(s) in one field plus work experience in
     another seems to be a frequent winner.
 
     be in good physical condition, with good eyesight.	(do not get a
     radial keratomy or similar hack to improve your vision; nobody knows
     what sudden pressure changes would do to rked eyes, and long-term
     effects are poorly understood.  for that matter, avoid any other
     significant medical unknowns.)  if you can pass a jet-pilot physical,
     you should be okay; if you can't, your chances are poor.
 
     practise public speaking, and be conservative and conformist in
     appearance and actions; you've got a tough selling job ahead, trying
     to convince a cautious, conservative selection committee that you
     are better than hundreds of other applicants.  (and, also, that you
     will be a credit to nasa after you are hired:  public relations is
     a significant part of the job, and nasa's image is very prim and
     proper.)  the image you want is squeaky-clean workaholic yuppie.
     remember also that you will need a security clearance at some point,
     and security considers everybody guilty until proven innocent.
     keep your nose clean.
 
     get a pilot's license and make flying your number one hobby;
     experienced pilots are known to be favored even for non-pilot jobs.
 
     work for nasa; of 45 astronauts selected between 1984 and 1988,
     43 were military or nasa employees, and the remaining two were
     a nasa consultant and mae jemison (the first black female astronaut).
     if you apply from outside nasa and miss, but they offer you a job
     at nasa, ***take it***; sometimes in the past this has meant "you
     do look interesting but we want to know you a bit better first".
 
     think space:  they want highly motivated people, so lose no chance
     to demonstrate motivation.
 
     keep trying.  many astronauts didn't make it the first time.
 
 
 
 
     nasa
     national aeronautics and space administration
     lyndon b. johnson space center
     houston, texas
 
     announcement for mission specialist and pilot astronaut candidates
     ==================================================================
 
     astronaut candidate program
     ---------------------------
 
     the national aeronautics and space administration (nasa) has a need for
     pilot astronaut candidates and mission specialist astronaut candidates
     to support the space shuttle program. nasa is now accepting on a
     continuous basis and plans to select astronaut candidates as needed.
 
     persons from both the civilian sector and the military services will be
     considered.
 
     all positions are located at the lyndon b. johnson space center in
     houston, texas, and will involved a 1-year training and evaluation
     program.
 
     space shuttle program description
     ---------------------------------
 
     the numerous successful flights of the space shuttle have demonstrated
     that operation and experimental investigations in space are becoming
     routine. the space shuttle orbiter is launched into, and maneuvers in
     the earth orbit performing missions lastling up to 30 days. it then
     returns to earth and is ready for another flight with payloads and
     flight crew.
 
     the orbiter performs a variety of orbital missions including deployment
     and retrieval of satellites, service of existing satellites, operation
     of specialized laboratories (astronomy, earth sciences, materials
     processing, manufacturing), and other operations. these missions will
     eventually include the development and servicing of a permanent space
     station. the orbiter also provides a staging capability for using higher
     orbits than can be achieved by the orbiter itself. users of the space
     shuttle's capabilities are both domestic and foreign and include
     government agencies and private industries.
 
     the crew normally consists of five people - the commander, the pilot,
     and three mission specialists. on occasion additional crew members are
     assigned. the commander, pilot, and mission specialists are nasa
     astronauts.
 
     pilot astronaut
 
     pilot astronauts server as both space shuttle commanders and pilots.
     during flight the commander has onboard responsibility for the vehicle,
     crew, mission success and safety in flight. the pilot assists the
     commander in controlling and operating the vehicle. in addition, the
     pilot may assist in the deployment and retrieval of satellites utilizing
     the remote manipulator system, in extra-vehicular activities, and other
     payload operations.
 
     mission specialist astronaut
 
     mission specialist astronauts, working with the commander and pilot,
     have overall responsibility for the coordination of shuttle operations
     in the areas of crew activity planning, consumables usage, and
     experiment and payload operations. mission specialists are required to
     have a detailed knowledge of shuttle systems, as well as detailed
     knowledge of the operational characteristics, mission requirements and
     objectives, and supporting systems and equipment for each of the
     experiments to be conducted on their assigned missions. mission
     specialists will perform extra-vehicular activities, payload handling
     using the remote manipulator system, and perform or assist in specific
     experimental operations.
 
     astronaut candidate program
     ===========================
 
     basic qualification requirements
     --------------------------------
 
     applicants must meet the following minimum requirements prior to
     submitting an application.
 
     mission specialist astronaut candidate:
 
     1. bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering,
     biological science, physical science or mathematics. degree must be
     followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible,
     professional experience. an advanced degree is desirable and may be
     substituted for part or all of the experience requirement (master's
     degree = 1 year, doctoral degree = 3 years). quality of academic
     preparation is important.
 
     2. ability to pass a nasa class ii space physical, which is similar to a
     civilian or military class ii flight physical and includes the following
     specific standards:
 
 	 distant visual acuity:
 	      20/150 or better uncorrected,
 	      correctable to 20/20, each eye.
 
 	 blood pressure:
 	      140/90 measured in sitting position.
 
     3. height between 58.5 and 76 inches.
 
     pilot astronaut candidate:
 
     1. bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in engineering,
     biological science, physical science or mathematics. degree must be
     followed by at least three years of related progressively responsible,
     professional experience. an advanced degree is desirable. quality of
     academic preparation is important.
 
     2. at least 1000 hours pilot-in-command time in jet aircraft. flight
     test experience highly desirable.
 
     3. ability to pass a nasa class i space physical which is similar to a
     military or civilian class i flight physical and includes the following
     specific standards:
 
 	 distant visual acuity:
 	      20/50 or better uncorrected
 	      correctable to 20/20, each eye.
 
 	 blood pressure:
 	      140/90 measured in sitting position.
 
     4. height between 64 and 76 inches.
 
     citizenship requirements
 
     applications for the astronaut candidate program must be citizens of
     the united states.
 
     note on academic requirements
 
     applicants for the astronaut candidate program must meet the basic
     education requirements for nasa engineering and scientific positions --
     specifically: successful completion of standard professional curriculum
     in an accredited college or university leading to at least a bachelor's
     degree with major study in an appropriate field of engineering,
     biological science, physical science, or mathematics.
 
       the following degree fields, while related to engineering and the
     sciences, are not considered qualifying:
       - degrees in technology (engineering technology, aviation technology,
 	medical technology, etc.)
       - degrees in psychology (except for clinical psychology, physiological
 	psychology, or experimental psychology which are qualifying).
       - degrees in nursing.
       - degrees in social sciences (geography, anthropology, archaeology, etc.)
       - degrees in aviation, aviation management or similar fields.
 
     application procedures
     ----------------------
 
     civilian
 
     the application package may be obtained by writing to:
 
 	nasa johnson space center
 	astronaut selection office
 	attn: ahx
 	houston, tx 77058
 
     civilian applications will be accepted on a continuous basis. when nasa
     decides to select additional astronaut candidates, consideration will be
     given only to those applications on hand on the date of decision is
     made. applications received after that date will be retained and
     considered for the next selection. applicants will be notified annually
     of the opportunity to update their applications and to indicate
     continued interest in being considered for the program. those applicants
     who do not update their applications annually will be dropped from
     consideration, and their applications will not be retained. after the
     preliminary screening of applications, additional information may be
     requested for some applicants, and person listed on the application as
     supervisors and references may be contacted.
 
     active duty military
 
     active duty military personnel must submit applications to their
     respective military service and not directly to nasa. application
     procedures will be disseminated by each service.
 
     selection
     ---------
 
     personal interviews and thorough medical evaluations will be required
     for both civilian and military applicants under final consideration.
     once final selections have been made, all applicants who were considered
     will be notified of the outcome of the process.
 
     selection rosters established through this process may be used for the
     selection of additional candidates during a one year period following
     their establishment.
 
     general program requirements
 
     selected applicants will be designated astronaut candidates and will be
     assigned to the astronaut office at the johnson space center, houston,
     texas. the astronaut candidates will undergo a 1 year training and
     evaluation period during which time they will be assigned technical or
     scientific responsibilities allowing them to contribute substantially to
     ongoing programs. they will also participate in the basic astronaut
     training program which is designed to develop the knowledge and skills
     required for formal mission training upon selection for a flight. pilot
     astronaut candidates will maintain proficiency in nasa aircraft during
     their candidate period.
 
     applicants should be aware that selection as an astronaut candidate does
     not insure selection as an astronaut. final selection as an astronaut
     will depend on satisfactory completion of the 1 year training and
     evaluation period. civilian candidates who successfully complete the
     training and evaluation and are selected as astronauts will become
     permanent federal employees and will be expected to remain with nasa for
     a period of at least five years. civilian candidates who are not
     selected as astronauts may be placed in other positions within nasa
     depending upon agency requirements and manpower constraints at that
     time. successful military candidates will be detailed to nasa for a
     specified tour of duty.
 
     nasa has an affirmative action program goal of having qualified
     minorities and women among those qualified as astronaut candidates.
     therefore, qualified minorities and women are encouraged to apply.
 
     pay and benefits
     ----------------
 
     civilians
 
     salaries for civilian astronaut candidates are based on the federal
     governments general schedule pay scales for grades gs-11 through gs-14,
     and are set in accordance with each individuals academic achievements
     and experience.
 
     other benefits include vacation and sick leave, a retirement plan, and
     participation in group health and life insurance plans.
 
     military
 
     selected military personnel will be detailed to the johnson space center
     but will remain in an active duty status for pay, benefits, leave, and
     other similar military matters.
 
 
 next: faq #15/15 - orbital and planetary launch services
 