
 archive-name: space/net
 last-modified: $date: 93/04/01 14:39:15 $
 
 network resources
 
 overview
 
     you may be reading this document on any one of an amazing variety of
     computers, so much of the material below may not apply to you. in
     general, however, systems connected to 'the net' fall in one of three
     categories: internet, usenet, or bitnet. electronic mail may be sent
     between these networks, and other resources available on one of these
     networks are sometimes accessible from other networks by email sent to
     special 'servers'.
 
     the space and astronomy discussion groups actually are composed of
     several mechanisms with (mostly) transparent connections between them.
 
     one mechanism is the mailing list, in which mail is sent to a central
     distribution point which relays it to all recipients of the list. in
     addition to the general lists for space (called space digest for
     internet users, and space on bitnet), there are a number of more
     specialized mailing lists described below.
 
     a second mechanism is usenet 'netnews'. this is somewhat like a bulletin
     board operating on each system which is a part of the net. netnews
     separates contributions into hundreds of different categories based on a
     'group name'. the groups dealing most closely with space topics are
     called 'sci.space.news', 'sci.space', 'sci.space.shuttle', 'sci.astro',
     and 'talk.politics.space'. contributors 'post' submissions (called
     'articles' in netnews terminology) on their local machine, which sends
     it to other nearby machines. similarly, articles sent from nearby
     machines are stored locally and may be forwarded to other systems, so
     that an article is posted locally and eventually reaches all the usenet
     sites interested in receiving the news group to which the article was
     posted.
 
     gateway machines redirect the usenet sci.space group into internet and
     bitnet mailing lists and vice versa; the other usenet groups are not
     accessible as mailing lists. if you can receive netnews, its more
     flexible interface and access to a wider range of material usually make
     it the preferred option.
 
 mailing lists
 
     space digest is the main internet list, and is now being run by the
     international space university (in only its second change of management
     in over a decade). email space-request@isu.isunet.edu (message body
     should be in the format 'subscribe space john public') to join. note
     that the moderated space magazine list is defunct at present for lack of
     a moderator. old copies of space digest since its inception in 1981 are
     available by anonymous ftp. retrieve
 	julius.cs.qub.ac.uk:pub/spacedigestarchive/readme
     for further details.
 
     elements is a moderated list for fast distribution of space shuttle
     keplerian elements before and during shuttle flights. nasa two line
     elements are sent out on the list from dr. kelso, jsc, and other sources
     as they are released. email to elements-request@telesoft.com to join.
 
     gps digest is a moderated list for discussion of the global positioning
     system and other satellite navigation positioning systems. email to
     gps-request@esseye.si.com to join.
 
     space-investors is a list for information relevant to investing in
     space-related companies. email vincent cate (vac@cs.cmu.edu) to join.
 
     space-tech is a list for more technical discussion of space topics;
     discussion has included esoteric propulsion technologies, asteroid
     capture, starflight, orbital debris removal, etc. email to
     space-tech-request@cs.cmu.edu to join. archives of old digests and
     selected excerpts are available by anonymous ftp from
     gs80.sp.cs.cmu.edu (128.2.205.90) in /usr/anon/public/space-tech,
     or by email to space-tech-request if you don't have ftp access.
 
     seds-l is a bitnet list for members of students for the exploration and
     development of space and other interested parties. email
     listserv@tamvm1.bitnet with a message saying "subscribe seds-l your
     name". email saying "index seds-l" to list the archive contents.
 
     sedsnews is a bitnet list for news items, press releases, shuttle status
     reports, and the like. this duplicates material which is also found in
     space digest, sci.space, sci.space.shuttle, and sci.astro. email
     listserv@tamvm1.bitnet saying "subscribe sedsnews your name" to join.
     email saying "index sedsnews" to list the archive contents.
 
     ron baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) runs a mailing list which
     carries the contents of the sci.space.news usenet group. email him
     to join the list.
 
     as a general note, please mail to the *request* address to get off a
     mailing list. space digest, for example, relays many inappropriate
     'please remove me from this list' messages which are sent to the list
     address rather than the request address.
 
 periodically updated information
 
     in addition to this faq list, a broad variety of topical information is
     posted to the net (unless otherwise noted, in the new group
     sci.space.news created for this purpose). please remember that the
     individuals posting this information are performing a service for all
     net readers, and don't take up their time with frivolous requests.
 
     acronyms
 	garrett wollman (wollman@uvm.edu) posts an acronym list around the
 	first of each month.
 
     astro-ftp list
 	veikko makela (veikko.makela@helsinki.fi) posts a monthly list of
 	anonymous ftp servers containing astronomy and space related
 	material to sci.space and sci.astro.
 
     aviation week
 	henry spencer (henry@zoo.toronto.edu) posts summaries of
 	space-related stories in the weekly _aviation week and space
 	technology_.
 
     buying telescopes
 	ronnie kon (ronnie@cisco.com) posts a guide to buying telescopes to
 	sci.astro.
 
     electronic journal of the asa
 	don barry (don@chara.gsu.edu) posts the monthly electronic journal
 	of the astronomical society of the atlantic to sci.astro.
 
     flight international
 	swaraj jeyasingh (sjeyasin@axion.bt.co.uk) posts summaries of
 	space-related news from _flight international_. this focuses more on
 	non-us space activities than aviation week.
 
     large astronomical projects
 	robert bunge (rbunge@access.digex.com) posts a list describing many
 	"large telescope projects either being considered or in the works"
 	to sci.astro.
 
     nasa headline news & shuttle reports
 	peter yee (yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov) posts a variety of nasa material,
 	including nasa headline news (with the schedule for nasa select),
 	shuttle payload briefings and flight manifests, and ksc shuttle
 	status reports. for usenet users, much of this material appears in
 	the group sci.space.shuttle.
 
     nasa updates
 	ron baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) posts frequent updates from
 	jpl, ames, and other centers on the ulysses, gailileo, pioneer,
 	magellan, landsat, and other missions.
 
     orbital element sets
 	ts kelso (tkelso@blackbird.afit.af.mil) posts orbital elements from
 	nasa prediction bulletins.
 
 	mike rose (mrose@stsci.edu) posts orbital elements for the hubble
 	space telescope to sci.astro.
 
 	jost jahn (j.jahn@abbs.hanse.de) posts ephemerides for asteroids,
 	comets, conjunctions, and encounters to sci.astro.
 
     satellite launches
 	richard langley (lang@unb.ca) posts spacewarn bulletin, which
 	describes recent launch/orbital decay information and satellites
 	which are useful for scientific activities. recent bulletins are
 	available by anonymous ftp from nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov in
 	anon_dir:[000000.active.spx].
 
     shuttle manifest
 	ken hollis (gandalf@pro-electric.cts.com) posts a compressed version
 	of the space shuttle launch manifest to sci.space.shuttle. this
 	includes dates, times, payloads, and information on how to see
 	launches and landings.
 
     solar activity
 	cary oler (oler@hg.uleth.ca) posts solar terrestrial reports
 	(describing solar activity and its effect on the earth) to
 	sci.space. the report is issued in part from data released by the
 	space enviroment services center, boulder colorado. the intro
 	document needed to understand these reports is available by
 	anonymous ftp from solar.stanford.edu (36.10.0.4) in
 	pub/understanding_solar_terrestrial_reports. nic.funet.fi
 	(128.214.6.100) also has this document in
 	/pub/misc/rec.radio.shortwave/solarreports and is an archive site
 	for the reports (please note this site is in europe, and the
 	connection to the us is only 56kb). a new primary archive site,
 	xi.uleth.ca (142.66.3.29), has recently been established and will be
 	actively supported.
 
     soviet space activities
 	glenn chapman (glennc@cs.sfu.ca) posts summaries of soviet space
 	activities.
 
     space activist newsletter
 	allen sherzer (aws@iti.org) posts a newsletter, "one small step for
 	a space activist," to talk.politics.space. it describes current
 	legislative activity affecting nasa and commercial space activities.
 
     space events calendar
 	ron baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) posts a calendar including
 	anniversaries, conferences, launch dates, meteor showers and
 	eclipses, and other space-related events.
 
     space news
 	john magliacane (kd2bd@ka2qhd.uucp) posts "spacenews" (covering
 	amsats, noaa and other weather satellites, and other ham
 	information) to rec.radio.amateur.misc and sci.space.
 
     space report
 	jonathan mcdowell (mcdowell@cfa.harvard.edu) posts "jonathan's space
 	report" covering launches, landings, reentries, status reports,
 	satellite activities, etc.
 
     toward 2001
 	bev freed (freed@nss.fidonet.org) posts "toward 2001", a weekly
 	global news summary reprinted from _space calendar_ magazine.
 
 
 warning about non-public networks
 
     (included at the suggestion of eugene miya, who wrote the item)
 
     nasa has an internal system of unclassified electronic mail and bulletin
     boards. this system is not open for public use. specifically, nasa
     personnel and procurement operations are regarded with some sensitivity.
     contractors must renegotiate their contracts. the fair and open
     procurement act does not look kindly to those having inside information.
     contractors and outsiders caught using this type of information can
     expect severe penalities. unauthorized access attempts may subject you
     to a fine and/or imprisonment in accordance with title 18, usc, section
     1030. if in fact you should should learn of unauthorized access, contact
     nasa personnel.
 
     claims have been made on this news group about fraud and waste. none
     have ever been substantiated to any significant degree. readers
     detecting fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement should contact the nasa
     inspector general (24-hours) at 800-424-9183 (can be anonymous) or write
 
 	nasa
 	inspector general
 	p.o. box 23089
 	l'enfant plaza station
 	washington dc 20024
 
 next: faq #3/15 - online (and some offline) sources of images, data, etc.
 