
 archive-name: space/intro
 last-modified: $date: 93/04/01 14:39:10 $
 
     frequently asked questions on sci.space/sci.astro
 
     introduction
 
     this series of linked messages is periodically posted to the usenet
 groups sci.space and sci.astro in an attempt to provide good answers to
 frequently asked questions and other reference material which is worth
 preserving. if you have corrections or answers to other frequently asked
 questions that you would like included in this posting, send email to
 leech@cs.unc.edu (jon leech).
 
     if you don't want to see the faq, add 'frequently asked questions' to
 your kill file for this group (if you're not reading this with a newsreader
 that can kill articles by subject, you're out of luck).
 
     the faq volume is excessive right now and will hopefully be trimmed down
 by rewriting and condensing over time. the faq postings are available in
 the ames space archive in faq/faq<#>.
 
     good summaries will be accepted in place of the answers given here. the
 point of this is to circulate existing information, and avoid rehashing old
 answers. better to build on top than start again. nothing more depressing
 than rehashing old topics for the 100th time. references are provided
 because they give more complete information than any short generalization.
 
     questions fall into three basic types:
 
     1) where do i find some information about space?
 
     try your local public library first. the net is not a good place to ask
     for general information. ask individuals (by email) if you must. there
     are other sources, use them, too. the net is a place for open ended
     discussion.
 
     2) i have an idea which would improve space flight?
 
     hope you aren't surprised, but 9,999 out of 10,000 have usually been
     thought of before. again, contact a direct individual source for
     evaluation. nasa fields thousands of these each day.
 
     3) miscellanous queries.
 
     these are addressed on a case-by-case basis in the following series of
     faq postings.
 
 
     suggestions for better netiquette
 
     read news.announce.newusers if you're on usenet.
     minimize cross references, [do you really need to?]
     edit "subject:" lines, especially if you're taking a tangent.
     send mail instead, avoid posting follow ups. (1 mail message worth
 	100 posts).
     internet mail readers: send requests to add/drop to space-request
 	not space.
     read all available articles before posting a follow-up. (check all
 	references.)
     cut down attributed articles (leave only the points you're
 	responding to; remove signatures and headers). summarize!
     put a return address in the body (signature) of your message (mail
 	or article), state your institution, etc. don't assume the
 	'reply' function of mailers will work.
     use absolute dates. post in a timely way. don't post what everyone
 	will get on tv anyway.
     some editors and window systems do character count line wrapping:
 	keep lines under 80 characters for those using ascii terminals
 	(use carriage returns).
 
 
     index to linked postings
 
     i've attempted to break the postings up into related areas. there isn't
     a keyword index yet; the following lists the major subject areas in each
     posting. only those containing astronomy-related material are posted to
     sci.astro (indicated by '*' following the posting number).
 
     #	contents
 
     1*	introduction
 	    suggestions for better netiquette
 	    index to linked postings
 	    notes on addresses, phone numbers, etc.
 	    contributors
 
     2*	network resources
 	    overview
 	    mailing lists
 	    periodically updated information
 	    warning about non-public networks
 
     3*	online (and some offline) sources of images, data, etc.
 	    introduction
 	    viewing images
 	    online archives
 		nasa ames
 		nasa astrophysics data system
 		nasa jet propulsion lab (mission information and images)
 		nasa langley (technical reports)
 		nasa spacelink
 		national space science data center
 		space telescope science institute electronic info. service
 		starcat
 		astronomical databases
 		astronomy programs
 		orbital element sets
 		space digest
 	    landsat & nasa photos
 	    planetary maps
 	    cometary orbits
 
     4*	performing calculations and interpreting data formats
 	    computing spacecraft orbits and trajectories
 	    computing planetary positions
 	    computing crater diameters from earth-impacting asteroids
 	    map projections and spherical trignometry
 	    performing n-body simulations efficiently
 	    interpreting the fits image format
 	    sky (unix ephemeris program)
 	    three-dimensional star/galaxy coordinates
 
     5*	references on specific areas
 	    publishers of space/astronomy material
 	    careers in the space industry
 	    dc-x single-stage to orbit (ssto) program
 	    how to name a star after a person
 	    llnl "great exploration"
 	    lunar prospector
 	    lunar science and activities
 	    orbiting earth satellite histories
 	    spacecraft models
 	    rocket propulsion
 	    spacecraft design
 	    esoteric propulsion schemes (solar sails, lasers, fusion...)
 	    spy satellites
 	    space shuttle computer systems
 	    seti computation (signal processing)
 	    amateur satellies & weather satellites
 	    tides
 
     6*	constants and equations for calculations
 
     7*	astronomical mnemonics
 
     8	contacting nasa, esa, and other space agencies/companies
 	    nasa centers / arianespace / esa / nasda / soyuzkarta / space
 		camp / space commerce corporation / spacehab / spot image
 	    other commercial space businesses
 
     9	space shuttle answers, launch schedules, tv coverage
 	    shuttle launchings and landings; schedules and how to see them
 	    why does the shuttle roll just after liftoff?
 	    how to receive the nasa tv channel, nasa select
 	    amateur radio frequencies for shuttle missions
 	    solid rocket booster fuel composition
 
     10	planetary probes - historical missions
 	    us planetary missions
 	    mariner (venus, mars, & mercury flybys and orbiters)
 	    pioneer (moon, sun, venus, jupiter, and saturn flybys and orbiters)
 	    ranger (lunar lander and impact missions)
 	    lunar orbiter (lunar surface photography)
 	    surveyor (lunar soft landers)
 	    viking (mars orbiters and landers)
 	    voyager (outer planet flybys)
 	    soviet planetary missions
 	    soviet lunar probes
 	    soviet venus probes
 	    soviet mars probes
 	    japanese planetary missions
 	    planetary mission references
 
     11	upcoming planetary probes - missions and schedules
 	    cassini
 	    galileo
 	    magellan
 	    mars observer
 	    topex/poseidon
 	    ulysses
 	    other space science missions
 	    proposed missions
 
     12	controversial questions
 	    what happened to the saturn v plans
 	    why data from space missions isn't immediately available
 	    risks of nuclear (rtg) power sources for space probes
 	    impact of the space shuttle on the ozone layer
 	    how long can a human live unprotected in space
 	    how the challenger astronauts died
 	    using the shuttle beyond low earth orbit
 	    the "face on mars"
 
     13	space activist/interest/research groups and space publications
 	    groups
 	    publications
 	    undocumented groups
 
     14	how to become an astronaut
 
     15	orbital and planetary launch services
 
 
     notes on addresses, phone numbers, etc.
 
     unless otherwise specified, telephone numbers, addresses, and so on are
     for the united states of america. non-us readers should remember to add
     the country code for telephone calls, etc.
 
 
     credits
 
     eugene miya started a series of linked faq postings some years ago which
     inspired (and was largely absorbed into) this set.
 
     peter yee and ron baalke have and continue to spend a lot of their own
     time setting up the space archives at nasa ames and forwarding official
     nasa announcements.
 
     many other people have contributed material to this list in the form of
     old postings to sci.space and sci.astro which i've edited. please let me
     know if corrections need to be made. contributors i've managed to keep
     track of are:
 
     0004847546@mcimail.com (francis reddy)	- map projections
     ad038@yfn.ysu.edu (steven fisk)		- publication refs.
     akerman@bill.phy.queensu.ca (richard akerman)   - crater diameters
     alweigel@athena.mit.edu (lisa weigel)	- seds info
     aoab314@emx.utexas.edu (srinivas bettadpur) - tides
     awpaeth@watcgl.waterloo.edu (alan wm paeth) - map projections
     aws@iti.org (allen w. sherzer)		- great exploration
     baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov (ron baalke)	- planetary probe schedules
     bankst@rata.vuw.ac.nz (timothy banks)	- map projections,
 	variable star analysis archive
     bern@uni-trier.de (jochen bern)		- german mnemonic translation
     brosen@pioneer.arc.nasa.gov (bernie rosen)	- space camp
     bschlesinger@nssdca.gsfc.nasa.gov (barry schlesinger)   - fits format
     cew@venera.isi.edu (craig e. ward)		- space group contact info
     chapin@cbnewsc.att.com (tom chapin)		- planetary positions
     cunnida@tenet.edu (d. alan cunningham)	- nasa spacelink
     cyamamot@kilroy.jpl.nasa.gov (cliff yamamoto) - orbital elements
     datri@convex.com (anthony datri)		- pds/vicar viewing software
     daver@sjc.mentorg.com (dave rickel)		- orbit formulae
     dlbres10@pc.usl.edu (phil fraering)		- propulsion
     eder@hsvaic.boeing.com (dani eder)		- saturn v plans, srbs
     eugene@eos.arc.nasa.gov (eugene n. miya)	- introduction,
 	nasa contact info, started faq postings
     french@isu.isunet.edu (patrick m. french)	- space group contact info
     g@telesoft.com (gary morris)		- amateur radio info
     gaetz@cfa.harvard.edu (terry gaetz)		- n-body calculations,
 	orbital dynamics
     grandi@noao.edu (steve grandi)		- planetary positions
     greer%utd201.dnet%utadnx@utspan.span.nasa.gov (dale m. greer)   - constants
     henry@zoo.toronto.edu (henry spencer)	- survival in vacuum,
 	astronaut how-to, challenger disaster, publication refs, dc-x
     higgins@fnal.bitnet (william higgins)	- rtgs, publishers,
 	shuttle landings, spysats, propulsion, "face on mars"
     hmueller@cssun.tamu.edu (hal mueller)	- map projections,
 	orbital dynamics
     jbh55289@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (josh hopkins)	- launch services
     jim@pnet01.cts.com (jim bowery)		- propulsion, launch services
     jnhead@pirl.lpl.arizona.edu (james n. head) - atmospheric scale heights
     jscotti@lpl.arizona.edu (jim scotti)	- planetary positions
     kcarroll@zoo.toronto.edu (kieran a. carroll)- refs for spacecraft design
     ken@orion.bitnet (kenneth ng)		- rtgs
     kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov (ken jenks)	- shuttle roll manuever
     klaes@verga.enet.dec.com (larry klaes)	- planetary probe history
     leech@cs.unc.edu (jon leech)		- crater diameters
     lfa@ssi.com (lou adornato)			- orbital dynamics
     maury.markowitz@egsgate.fidonet.org (maury markowitz)   - propulsion
     max@west.darkside.com (erik max francis)	- equations
     mbellon@mcdurb.urbana.gould.com		- n-body calculations
     mcconley@phoenix.princeton.edu (marc wayne mcconley)    - space careers
     msb@sq.com (mark brader)			- mariner 1 info.
     mwm@cmu.edu (mark maimone)			- space digest
     nickw@syma.sussex.ac.uk (dr. nick watkins)	- models, spysats
     ohainaut@eso.org (olivier r. hainaut)	- publishers, starcat
     oneil@aio.jsc.nasa.gov (graham o'neil)	- lunar prospector
     panama@cup.portal.com (kenneth w durham)	- cometary orbits, iau
     paul.blase@nss.fidonet.org (paul blase)	- propulsion
     pjs@plato.jpl.nasa.gov (peter scott)	- rtgs
     pschleck@unomaha.edu (paul w. schleck)	- amsat, arrl contact info
     rdb@mel.cocam.oz.au (rodney brown)		- propulsion refs
     rja7m@phil.cs.virginia.edu (ran atkinson)	- ftpable astro. programs
     rjungcla@ihlpb.att.com (r. michael jungclas)- models
     roelle@sigi.jhuapl.edu (curt roelle)	- german mnemonic translation
     seal@leonardo.jpl.nasa.gov (david seal)	- cassini mission schedule
     shafer@skipper.dfrf.nasa.gov (mary shafer)	- photos, shuttle landings
     smith@sndpit.enet.dec.com (willie smith)	- photos
     stephen@gpwd.gp.co.nz (stephen dixon)	- shuttle audio frequencies
     sterner@warper.jhuapl.edu (ray sterner)	- planetary positions
     stooke@vaxr.sscl.uwo.ca (phil stooke)	- planetary maps
     ted_anderson@transarc.com (ted anderson)	- propulsion
     terry@astro.as.utexas.edu (terry hancock)	- nasa center info
     thorson@typhoon.atmos.colostate.edu (bill thorson) - fits info
     tm2b+@andrew.cmu.edu (todd l. masco)	- space digest
     tom@ssd.csd.harris.com (tom horsley)	- refs for algorithms
     veikko.makela@helsinki.fi (veikko makela)	- orbital element sets
     wales.larrison@ofa123.fidonet.org (wales larrison) - groups & publications
     wayne@csri.utoronto.ca (wayne hayes)	- constants
     weemba@libra.wistar.upenn.edu (matthew p wiener) - voyager history
     yamada@yscvax.ysc.go.jp (yoshiro yamada)	- isas/nasda missions
     yee@ames.arc.nasa.gov (peter yee)		- ames archive server,
 	propulsion
 
     in net memoriam:
 	ted flinn
 
 next: faq #2/15 - network resources
 