
 archive-name: space/mnemonics
 last-modified: $date: 93/04/01 14:39:14 $
 
 astronomical mnemonics (this is the last faq section posted to sci.astro)
 
     gathered from various flurries of mnemonic postings on sci.astro.
 
     spectral classification sequence: o b a f g k m r n s
 
 	oh be a fine girl kiss me right now, sweetheart. (a classic)
 
 	o'dell's big astronomical fiasco gonna kill me right now surely
 	obese balding astronomy found guilty; killed many reluctant
 	    nonscience students.
 	octopus brains, a favorite gastronomical kitchen menu,
 	    requires no sauce
 	odd ball astronomers find generally kooky mnemonics
 	    really nifty stuff
 	oh big and ferocious gorilla, kill my roomate next saturday
 	oh boy, a flash! godzilla kills mothra! really not surprising!
 	oh boy, an f grade kills me
 	on bad afternoons fermented grapes keep mrs. richard nixon smiling
 	on, backward astronomer, forget geocentricity; kepler's motions
 	    reveal nature's simplicity
 	our bad astronomy faculty gets killed monday
 	oven baked ants, fried gently, kept moist, retain natural succulence
 	overseas broadcast: a flash!  godzilla kills mothra!
 	    (rodan named successor)
 	overweight boys and fat girls keep munching
 	only bored astronomers find gratification knowing mnemonics
 	oh bloody astronomy!  f grades kill me
 
     order of the planets:
 
 	sun
 	mercury
 	venus
 	earth (terra)
 	mars
 	(asteroids)
 	jupiter
 	saturn
 	uranus
 	neptune
 	pluto
 
 	my very earnest mother just served us nine pizzas
 	mother very thoughtfully made a jelly sandwich under no protest
 	my very erotic mate joyfully satisfies unusual needs passionately
 	men very easily make jugs serve useful nocturnal purposes
 	man very early made a jug serve useful noble purposes
 	my very educated mother just showed us nine planets
 	my very eager mother just showed us nine planets
 	my very exhausted mother has just swept up a planetary nebula
 	most voters earn money just showing up near polls
 	my very educated mother just served us nine pizza-pies
 	many viscious elephants made john, suzy and uncle need protection
 	solar mass very easily makes all jupiter's satellites undergo
 	    numerous perturbations.
 
 	mein vater erklaert mir jeden sonntag unsere niedlichen planeten
 	    (my father explains to me every sunday our nine planets)
 	man verachte einen menschen in seinem unglueck nie -- punkt
 	    (never scorn/despise a person in his misfortune/bad luck/misery
 		-- period!)
 
     colors of the spectrum: red orange yellow green blue indigo violet
 	roy g. biv  (pronounce as a man's name)
 	richard of york gave battle in vain
 	read out your good book in verse
 
     galilean satellite of jupiter: io europa ganymede callisto
 	i expect god cries
 	i eat green cheese
 	i embarrass good christians
 
 	ich erschrecke all guten christen
 	    (i scare all good christians)
 
     saturnian satellites
 	met dr thip
 	miriam's enchiladas taste divine recently. tell her i'm proud.
 	(mimas, enceladus, tethys, dione, rhea, titan, hyperion,
 	    iapetus, phoebe)
 
     uranian satellites:
 	mauto
 	mispronunciations afflict uranus too often
 	my angel uriel takes opium
 	(miranda, ariel, umbriel, titania, oberon)
 
 note: the remaining faq sections do not appear in sci.astro, as they cover
     material of relevance only to sci.space.
 
 next: faq #8/15 - contacting nasa, esa, and other space agencies/companies
 