
 in article <vnci2b7w165w@inqmind.bison.mb.ca>, victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca 
 (victor laking) writes:
 > does anyone have any info on the apparent sightings of vulcan?
 >  
 > all that i know is that there were apparently two sightings at 
 > drastically different times of a small planet that was inside mercury's 
 > orbit.  beyond that, i have no other info.
 
 the sightings were apparently spurious.  there is no planet inside of
 the orbit of mercury.
 
 the idea of vulcan came from the differences between mercury's observed
 perihelion precession and the value it should have had according to
 newtonian physics.  leverrier made an extensive set of observations
 and calculations during the mid 19th century, and simon newcombe later
 improved on the observations and re-calculated using leverrier's system
 of equations.  now leverrier was one of the co-discoverers of neptune
 and since he had predicted its existence based on anomalies in the orbit
 of uranus his inclination was to believe the same sort of thing was
 afoot with mercury.
 
 but alas, 'twere not so.  mercury's perihelion precesses at the rate
 it does because the space where it resides near the sun is significantly
 curved due to the sun's mass.  this explanation had to wait until 1915
 and albert einstein's synthesis of his earlier theory of the electrodynamics
 of moving bodies (commonly called special relativity) with reimanian 
 geometry.  the result was the general theory of relativity, and one of
 it's most noteworthy strengths is that it accounts for the precession
 of mercury's perihelion almost exactly.  (exactly if you use newcomb's
 numbers rather than leverrier's.)
 
 of course not everybody believes einstein, and that's fine.  but subsequent
 efforts to find any planets closer to the sun than mercury using radar
 have been fruitless.
 
 -bill gawne
 
  "forgive him, he is a barbarian, who thinks the customs of his tribe
   are the laws of the universe."                       - g. j. caesar
 
 any opinions are my own.  nothing in this post constitutes an official
 statement from any person or organization.
 