
 "space station redesign leader says cost goal may be
 impossible"
 
 today (4/6) the washington post ran an article with the
 headline shown above. the article starts with "a leader
 of the nasa team in charge of redesigning the planned
 space station said yesterday the job is tough and may
 be impossible." o'connor is quoted saying whether it is
 possible to cut costs that much and still provide for
 meaningful research "is a real question for me."
 o'connor said "everything is fair game," including
 "dropping or curtailing existing contracts with the
 aerospace industry, chopping management of the space
 station program at some nasa facilities around the
 country, working closely with the russian space station
 mir, and using unmanned titan rockets to supplement the
 manned space shuttle fleet."
 
 o'connor says his team has reviewed 30 design options
 so far, and they are sorting the serious candidates
 into three categories based on cost.
 
 the post says o'connor described the design derived
 from the current ssf as a high cost option (i believe
 kathy sawyer, the post writer, got confused here. i
 listened in on part of o'connor's briefing to the press
 on monday, and in one part of the briefing o'connor
 talked about how the white house wants three options,
 sorted by cost [low, medium, and high]. in another part
 of the briefing, he discussed the three teams he has
 formed to look at three options [ssf derivative @ larc,
 modular buildup with bus-1 @ msfc, and single launch
 core ["wingless orbiter"] @ jsc. later, in response to
 a reporters question, i thought i heard o'connor say
 the option based on a ssf redesign was a "moderate"
 cost option, in between low & high cost options. not
 the "high cost" option as sawyer wrote).
 
 the article goes on to describe the other two options
 as "one features modules that could gradually be fitted
 together in orbit, similar to the russian mir. the
 other is a core facility that could be deposited in
 orbit in a single launch, like skylab. that option
 would use existing hardware from the space shuttle -
 the fuselage, for example, in its basic structure."
 
 the last sentence in the article contradicts the title
 & the first paragraph. the sentence reads "he
 [o'connor] said a streamlined version of the planned
 space station freedom is still possible within the
 administration's budget guidelines."
 
 