
 in the april edition of "one small step for a space activist",
 allen sherzer & tim kyger write:
   "another problem is what are called 'wraps' (or sometimes
    the 'center tax'). when work for a large program like
    freedom or shuttle is performed at a nasa center, the
    center skims off a portion which goes into what amounts
    to a slush fund. this money is used to fund work the
    center manager wants to fund. this sum is estimated to
    be over a third of the funds allocated. think about
    that: of the $30 billion cost of freedom, fully $10
    billion won't be spent on anything having anything
    to do with space stations! now, maybe that $10 billion
    was wisely spent (and maybe it wasn't), but the work done
    with it should stand on its own merits, not distorting
    the cost of other projects. congress has no idea of the
    existense of these wraps; congress has never heard the
    term 'center tax'. they look at the station they are
    getting and the price they are paying and note that
    it doesn't add up. they wonder this blissfully unaware
    that a third of the money is going for something else."
 
 my dear friends, your mixing fact and fiction here. a couple
 of weeks ago, when i first read this in your posting, i
 talked with one of the cost experts here in space station
 at headquarters [if you wondering why i didn't post a
 response immediately, i do have a real job i'm supposed
 to be doing here at headquarters, & digging up old 20 khz
 data & looking into sherzer/kyger claims rates pretty low
 on the totem pole of priority. also, i spent last weekend
 in kansas city, at the national science teachers 
 association conference, extolling the virtues of ssf
 to 15,000 science teachers.]
 
 first off, yes, the concept of 'center tax', or 'wrap' does
 exist. if i recall the numbers correctly, the total 'tax'
 for the ssf program for this fiscal year is around $40 million.
 this was computed by adding up the wp-1, wp-2, and wp-4
 center 'taxes'. with the ssf budget for this fiscal year at
 $2.2 billion, my calculater says the tax percentage is
 04/2.2 = 1.8%
 
 over the life of the ssf program, using your figure of $30
 billion for the cost of ssf, a tax at a 1.8% rate comes to
 $540 million. this is alot less than $10 billion, but i
 will concede it's still an appreciable amount of pocket
 change.
 
 i should note that your estimate of the tax rate at 1/3 could
 be close to the actual rate. the tax is only charged on funds
 that are spent at the center (kind of like mcdonalds at some
 states, where you do have to pay sales tax if you eat
 the food at the restaurant, but you don't if you get it
 take-out). for example, at wp-4, the vast bulk of the funds
 we receive go to the rocketdyne contract, and are *not*
 subject to the center tax (i don't have the numbers in
 front of me, but i'd guess at least 95% of the wp-4 funds
 go to rocketdyne). so, you could be right about a tax
 rate of 1/3, but it's only applied to funds spent at the
 center, and not to the prime contracts.
 
 this leads to the obvious question "what is the government
 doing with ssf funds that don't go to the prime contractors?
 (i.e. ok, wp-4 gets a slice of the $30 billion pie. a
 big portion of this slice goes to rocketdyne. what happens
 to the balance of the funds, which aren't eaten
 up by the center tax?)"
 
 at wp-4, we call these funds we spend in-house supporting
 development funds (as they are supporting the development
 work done by rocketdyne). we have used these funds to
 setup our own testbed, to checkout the electrical
 power system architecture. our testbed has a real life
 solar array field (left over from solar cell research
 research a few years back), with lead-acid car batteries
 (to simulate the nickel-hydrogen batteries on ssf), dc
 switchgear, dc-dc converter units, and simulated
 loads. data from the testbed was used in a recent
 change evaluation involving concerns about the stability
 of the power system.
 
 we have also used the supporting development money to
 purchase nickel hydrogen batteries, which are on life
 testing at both lewis and the crane naval facility in
 indiana. as a side point, 6 of the battery cells on
 test recently hit the four year life test milestone.
 38 cells have completed 18,552 to 23,405 cycles (the
 on-orbit batteries go through 5,840 cycles per year).
 
 as a final example, my 'home' division at lewis used
 the supporting development funds to purchase personal
 computers and work stations, for performing system
 analyses (like modeling of the performance of the
 electrical power system, availability calculations
 using a monte-carlo simulation, setting up a 
 database with information on weight of the power
 system elements).
 
 finally, the money raised by the 'tax' does not all
 go into a 'slush fund.' at lewis, the director
 does control a small discretionary fund. each year,
 any individual at lewis can submit a proposal to
 the director to get money from this fund to look
 at pretty much anything within the lewis charter.
 
 most of the tax, however, goes to fund the 'general'
 services at the center, like the library, the 
 central computer services division, the contractor 
 who removes the snow, etc. thus, it is rather
 difficult to determine what percentage of the
 ssf budget doesn't go for ssf activities. to get
 an accurate figure, you would have to take
 the annual expenditure for the library (for example),
 and then divide by the amount of the library funds
 used to support ssf (which would be hard to
 compute by itself - how would you figure out
 what percentage of the bill for aviation week for
 1 year is 'billable' to ssf, would you base it on
 the person-hours ssf employees spend reading av-week
 versus the rest of the center personnel). you would
 then have to compare this estimate of the ssf
 portion of the library expense with the portion of
 the tax that goes to support the library. who knows,
 maybe ssf overpays on the tax to run the library, but
 we underpay for snow removal? talk about
 a burecratic nightmare!
 
 my last point is that i can't believe your claim that
 congress has never heard of the term 'center tax.'
 unfortunately, all of the nasa testimony before
 congress isn't on a computer, so i can't do a simple
 word search someplace to prove you wrong. but surely,
 in some gao audit somewhere, these nasa cost methods
 were documented for congress?
 