
 ------- blind-carbon-copy
 
 to: spacenews@austen.rand.org, cti@austen.rand.org
 subject: white house outlines options for station, russian cooperation
 date: tue, 06 apr 93 16:00:21 pdt
 from: richard buenneke <buenneke@austen.rand.org>
 
 4/06/93:  gibbons outlines space station redesign guidance
 
 nasa headquarters, washington, d.c.
 april 6, 1993
 
 release:  93-64
 
         dr.  john h.  gibbons, director, office of science and technology
 policy, outlined to the members-designate of the advisory committee on the
 redesign of the space station on april 3, three budget options as guidance
 to the committee in their deliberations on the redesign of the space
 station.
 
         a low option of $5 billion, a mid-range option of $7 billion and a
 high option of $9 billion will be considered by the committee.  each
 option would cover the total expenditures for space station from fiscal
 year 1994 through 1998 and would include funds for development,
 operations, utilization, shuttle integration, facilities, research
 operations support, transition cost and also must include adequate program
 reserves to insure program implementation within the available funds.
 
         over the next 5 years, $4 billion is reserved within the nasa
 budget for the president's new technology investment.  as a result,
 station options above $7 billion must be accompanied by offsetting
 reductions in the rest of the nasa budget.  for example, a space station
 option of $9 billion would require $2 billion in offsets from the nasa
 budget over the next 5 years.
 
         gibbons presented the information at an organizational session of
 the advisory committee.  generally, the members-designate focused upon
 administrative topics and used the session to get acquainted.  they also
 received a legal and ethics briefing and an orientation on the process the
 station redesign team is following to develop options for the advisory
 committee to consider.
 
         gibbons also announced that the united states and its
 international partners -- the europeans, japanese and canadians -- have
 decided, after consultation, to give "full consideration" to use of
 russian assets in the course of the space station redesign process.
 
         to that end, the russians will be asked to participate in the
 redesign effort on an as-needed consulting basis, so that the redesign
 team can make use of their expertise in assessing the capabilities of mir
 and the possible use of mir and other russian capabilities and systems.
 the u.s. and international partners hope to benefit from the expertise of
 the russian participants in assessing russian systems and technology.  the
 overall goal of the redesign effort is to develop options for reducing
 station costs while preserving key research and exploration capabilitiaes.
 careful integration of russian assets could be a key factor in achieving
 that goal.
 
         gibbons reiterated that, "president clinton is committed to the
 redesigned space station and to making every effort to preserve the
 science, the technology and the jobs that the space station program
 represents.  however, he also is committed to a space station that is well
 managed and one that does not consume the national resources which should
 be used to invest in the future of this industry and this nation."
 
         nasa administrator daniel s.  goldin said the russian
 participation will be accomplished through the east-west space science
 center at the university of maryland under the leadership of roald
 sagdeev.
 
 ------- end of blind-carbon-copy
 