
    for immediate release           contact:  oasis (310) 364-2290
 
    15 april 1993                                los angeles, ca
 
      local national space society chapters sponsor talk by l.a.
   advocate of lunar power system as energy source for the world
 
    on april 21, the oasis and ventura county chapters of the national 
 space society will sponsor a talk by lunar power system (lps) co-
 inventor and vice-president of the lps coalition, dr. robert d.
 waldron.  it will be held at 7:30 p.m. at the rockwell science
 center in thousand oaks, ca.
 
    dr. waldron is currently a technical specialist in space
 materials processing with the space systems division of rockwell
 international in downey, california.  he is a recognized world
 authority on lunar materials refinement.  he has written or
 coauthored more than 15 articles or reports on nonterrestrial
 materials processing or utilization.  along with dr. david
 criswell, waldron invented the lunar/solar power system concept.
 
    momentum is building for a coalition of entrepreneurs, legal
 experts, and soviet and u.s. scientists and engineers to build
 the lunar power system, a pollution-free, energy source with a
 potential to power the globe.
 
    for the past three years members of the coalition, nearly half
 from california, have rejuvenated the commercial and scientific
 concept of a solar power system based on the moon.
 
    the lps concept entails collecting solar energy on the lunar
 surface and beaming the power to earth as microwaves transmitted
 through orbiting antennae.  a mature lps offers an enormous
 source of clean, sustainable power to meet the earth's ever
 increasing demand using proven, basic technology.
 
    oasis (organization for the advancement of space
 industrialization) is the greater los angeles chapter of the
 national space society, which is an international non-profit
 organization that promotes development of the space frontier.
 the ventura county chapter is based in oxnard, ca.
 
        where:  rockwell science center auditorium, 1049 camino
                dos rios, thousand oaks, ca.
 
    directions: ventura freeway 101 to thousand oaks, exit onto
                lynn road heading north (right turn from 101
                north, left turn from 101 south), after about 1/2
                mile turn left on camino dos rios, after about 1/2
                mile make first right into rockwell after camino
                colindo, parking at top of hill to the left
 
 