
 i have attached a copy of an announcement i picked up during my trip to
 moscow last week.  i have several friends at the moscow aviation
 institute who have asked me to post this announcement.  (i have done
 some editing, but the contents is unchanged from the original
 announcement.) 
 
 for those of you not familiar with the moscow aviation institute, it is
 the leading russian school of higher education dedicated to the training
 of aircraft and spacecraft designers.  it specializes in airframe
 design, powerplant design, control systems, and power systems.
 virtually all of the major former soviet airframe designers (tupolev,
 su, iluchine, migoyan, etc.) were schooled at mai.
 
 i had the opportunity to tour the two museums that are maintained at
 mai.  the aircraft include mig23, su 27, yak 38, the cockpit of an
 f-111(!), among others.  it was a fascinating and eye opening
 experience, expecially given the fact that the museum was, until a year
 or so ago, closed to virtually everyone.  i also had the opportunity to
 see some of the experiments being conducted with plasma drive engines
 for future space craft use.
 
 if you have any questions about the institute, or the program, i would
 be glad to try and answer them.  the institute, and most of it's faculty
 have e-mail addresses.  however, it takes about a day or so for the
 receiver to get the message.  they are still a bit antiquated - but they
 are rapidly changing!
 
 steve emmett
 semmett@gmuvax2.gmu.edu
 
 ps  please send any questions you have for me via e-mail.  george mason
 university has about a 2 week (!) delay in news feed delivery.
 
 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 		moscow international aviation school
 
 the aviation school "poljot" (meaning flight) is organized by the the
 moscow aviation institute, the prominent russian center of airspace
 education and the foreign trade firm poljot, well known in various
 parts of the world for their quartz and mechanical wrist watches.
 
 the course of studies will last only 50 days, but during this time
 you will have the unique opportunity:
 	- to listen to intensive courses on the main aviation
 disciplines, the history and theory of techniques, and design of
 airplanes;
 	- to visit and get acquainted with the world known russian 
 aviation firms - tu, mig, yak, il and su;
 	- to meet and have discussions with famous aviation
 scientists, engineers and pilots;
 	- to visit the most interesting museums of unique aviation
 techniques which were closed for many years to the public;
 	- to see the international airspace show which will take
 place in moscow from 31 august through 3 september 1993;
 	- to visit famous art museums, historical and architectural
 monuments, theatres and concert halls;
 	- to take part in sport competitions and have a great time
 with new friends.
 
 the director of the school is mr. oleg samelovich, a well known
 russian scientist, professor, general designer and the chief of the
 airplanes design department of the moscow aviation institute.  mr.
 samelovich is one of the designers of the the su-24, su-25, and su-27
 
 the lectures are given in english, using a multi-media concept.  the
 students are provided with all the necessary text books and
 literature.  after the full course of studies are completed, the
 student will receive a special certificate of graduation.
 
 the cost of studies, including hotel, meals, excursions, theatres,
 etc is $3500.
 
 to apply for admission, send your application to:
 
 109147 moscow marksistskaja 34
 foreign trade firm "poljot"
 274 00 13 (phone)
 274 00 22 (fax)
 411989 polex su (telex)
 
 in your application, include your full name, address, date and place
 of birth.  in addition, include complete passport information, as well
 as a description of your education.
 
 upon receipt of this information, "poljot" will immediately forward
 to you an official invitation for obtaining a russian entrance visa
 as well as details on payment.
 
 should you require additional information, please do not hesitate to
 contact us.
 
 (signed)	o. samelovich
 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 -- 
 
 steve emmett				 semmett@gmuvax2.gmu.edu
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 csi/physics, george mason university
 