
 
 posted to the internet by wmiler@nyx.cs.du.edu
  
 000062david42      041493003715
  
              the lunar tele-operation model one (ltm1)
              =========================================
                         by david h. mitchell
                           march 23, 1993
  
 introduction:
  
 in order to increase public interest in space-based and lunar operations, a
 real miniature lunar-like environment is being constructed on which to test
 tele-operated models. these models are remotely-controlled by individuals
 located world-wide using their personal computers, for edutainment
 purposes.
 not only does this provide a test-bed for simple tele-operation and
 tele-presence activities but it also provides for the sharing of
 information
 on methods of operating in space, including, but not limited to, layout of
 a
 lunar colony, tele-operating machines for work and play, disseminating
 educational information, providing contests and awards for creativity and
 achievement and provides a new way for students worldwide to participate in
 twenty-first century remote learning methods.
  
 because of the nature of the ltm1 project, people of all ages, interests
 and
 skills can contribute scenery and murals, models and structures,
 interfacing
 and electronics, software and graphics. in operation ltm1 is an evolving
 playground and laboratory that can be used by children, students and
 professionals worldwide. using a personal computer at home or a terminal at
 a participating institution a user is able to tele-operate real models at
 the
 ltm1 base for experimental or recreational purposes. because a real
 facility
 exists, ample opportunity is provided for media coverage of the
 construction
 of the lunar model, its operation and new features to be added as suggested
 by the users themselves.
  
 this has broad inherent interest for a wide range of groups:
  - tele-operations and virtual reality research
  - radio control, model railroad and ham radio operation
  - astronomy and space planetariums and science centers
  - art and theater
  - bbs and online network users
  - software and game developers
  - manufacturers and retailers of model rockets, cars and trains
  - children
  - the child in all of us
  
 ltm1 overall design:
  
 a room 14 feet by 8 feet contains the base lunar layout. the walls are used
 for murals of distant moon mountains, star fields and a view of the earth.
 the "floor" is the simulated lunar surface. a global call for contributions
 is hereby made for material for the lunar surface, and for the design and
 creation of scale models of lunar colony elements, scenery, and
 machine-lets.
  
  the ltm1 initial design has 3 tele-operated machinelets:
  1. an ssto scale model which will be able to lift off, hover and land;
  2. a bulldozerlet which will be able to move about in a quarry area; and
  3. a moon-train which will traverse most of the simulated lunar surface.
  
  each machinelet has a small tv camera utilizing a ccd tv chip mounted on
  it. a personal computer digitizes the image (including reducing picture
  content and doing data-compression to allow for minimal images to be sent
  to the operator for control purposes) and also return control signals.
  
 the first machinelet to be set up will be the moon-train since model trains
 with tv cameras built in are almost off-the-shelf items and control
 electronics for starting and stopping a train are minimal. the user will
 receive an image once every 1 to 4 seconds depending on the speed of their
 data link to ltm1.
  
 next, an ssto scale model with a ccd tv chip will be suspended from a
 servo-motor operated wire frame mounted on the ceiling allowing for the
 ssto
 to be controlled by the operator to take off, hover over the entire lunar
 landscape and land.
  
 finally, some tank models will be modified to be ccd tv chip equipped
 bulldozerlets. the entire initial ltm1 will allow remote operators
 worldwide
 to receive minimal images while actually operating models for landing and
 takeoff, traveling and doing work. the entire system is based on
 commercially
 available items and parts that can be easily obtained except for the
 interface electronics which is well within the capability of many advanced
 ham radio operator and computer hardware/software developers.
  
 by taking a graphically oriented communications program (dmodem) and adding
 a tele-operations screen and controls, the necessary user interface can be
 provided in under 80 man hours.
  
 plan of action:
  
 the diaspar virtual reality network has agreed to sponsor this project by
 providing a host computer network and internet access to that network.
 diaspar is providing the 14 foot by 8 foot facility for actual construction
 of the lunar model. diaspar has, in stock, the electronic tanks that can be
 modified and one ccd tv chip. diaspar also agrees to provide "rail stock"
 for the lunar train model. diaspar will make available the dmodem graphical
 communications package and modify it for control of the machines-lets.
 an initial "ground breaking" with miniature shovels will be performed for
 a live photo-session and news conference on april 30, 1993. the initial
 models will be put in place. a time-lapse record will be started for
 historical purposes. it is not expected that this event will be completely
 serious or solemn. the lunar colony will be declared open for additional
 building, operations and experiments. a photographer will be present and
 the photographs taken will be converted to .gif images for distribution
 world-wide to major online networks and bbs's. a press release will be
 issued
 calling for contributions of ideas, time, talent, materials and scale
 models
 for the simulated lunar colony.
  
 a contest for new designs and techniques for working on the moon will then
 be
 announced. universities will be invited to participate, the goal being to
 find instructors who wish to have class participation in various aspects of
 the lunar colony model. field trips to ltm1 can be arranged and at that
 time
 the results of the class work will be added to the model. contributors will
 then be able to tele-operate any contributed machine-lets once they return
 to
 their campus.
  
 a monthly ltm1 newsletter will be issued both electronically online and via
 conventional means to the media. any major new tele-operated equipment
 addition will be marked with an invitation to the television news media.
 having a large, real model space colony will be a very attractive photo
 opportunity for the television community. especially since the "action"
 will
 be controlled by people all over the world. science fiction writers will be
 invited to issue "challenges" to engineering and human factors students at
 universities to build and operate the tele-operated equipment to perform
 lunar tasks. using counter-weight and pulley systems, 1/6 gravity may be
 simulated to some extent to try various traction challenges.
  
 the long term goal is creating world-wide interest, education,
 experimentation
 and remote operation of a lunar colony. ltm1 has the potential of being a
 long
 term global edutainment method for space activities and may be the generic
 example of how to teach and explore in many other subject areas not limited
 to space edutainment. all of this facilitates the kind of spirit which can
 lead to a generation of people who are ready for the leap to the stars!
  
 conclusion:
  
 edutainment is the blending of education and entertainment. anyone who has
 ever enjoyed seeing miniatures will probably see the potential impact of a
 globally available layout for recreation, education and experimentation
 purposes. by creating a tele-operated model lunar colony we not only create
 world-wide publicity, but also a method of trying new ideas that require
 real
 (not virtual) skills and open a new method for putting people's minds in
 space.
  
  
 moonlighters:
  
 "illuminating the path of knowledge about space and lunar development."
 the following people are already engaged in various parts of this work:
 david42, rob47, dash, hyson, jzer0, vril, wyatt, the dark one, tiggertoo,
 the mad hatter, sir robin, jogden.
  
 come join the discussion any friday night from 10:30 to midnight pst in
  
 diaspar virtual reality network. ideas welcome!
  
 internet telnet to: 192.215.11.1 or diaspar.com
  
 (voice)  714-376-1776
 (2400bd) 714-376-1200
 (9600bd) 714-376-1234
  
 email inquiries to ltm1 project leader jzer@hydra.unm.edu
 or directly to jzer0 on diaspar.
 
 