
 i am posting this for a friend without internet access. please inquire
 to the phone number and address listed.
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 "space: teaching's newest frontier"
 sponsored by the planetary studies foundation
 
 the planetary studies foundation is sponsoring a one week class for
 teachers called "space: teaching's newest frontier." the class will be
 held at the sheraton suites in elk grove, illinois from june 14 through
 june 18. participants who complete the program can earn two semester
 hours of graduate credit from aurora college. please note that while the
 class is intended for teachers, it is not restricted to teachers.
 
 the class, which is being cosponsored by the united states space
 foundation, will teach how to use space exploration as a teaching tool
 to get students excited about learning and interested in science.
 
 classroom topics to be covered by the class include:
      > living in space
      > the space shuttle
      > the space station
      > nasa spinoffs that benefit society
      > principles of astrodynamics/aeronautics
      > the solar system
 
 there will also be simulated zero-g training in an underwater space
 station simulation, model rocket launches, observing sessions at the
 harper college observatory, and field trips to the adler planetarium and
 the museum of science and industry.
 
 featured speakers include jerry brown of the colorado based united
 states space foundation and debbie brown of the nasa lewis research
 center in cleveland, ohio. additional instructors will be provided by
 the planetary studies foundation.
 
 the social highlight of the class will be a dinner banquet featuring
 space shuttle payload specialist byron lichtenberg, currently president
 of payload systems, inc. lichtenberg was a member of the crew of sts-9
 which flew in november 1983. the banquet is scheduled for thursday, june
 17.
 
 the registration fee includes transportation for field trips, materials,
 continental breakfasts, lunches, and the special dinner banquet. guest
 tickets for the dinner banquet are also available.  there is an
 additional charge to receive the two hours of graduate credit. for any
 additional information about the class, contact the science learning
 center at (708) 359-7913.
 
 or write to:
 planetary studies foundation
 1520 w. algonquin rd.
 palatine, il 60067
 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 dennis newkirk (dennisn@ecs.comm.mot.com)
 motorola, land mobile products sector
 schaumburg, il
 