
 
 
 
 
 joint press release esa/un no 18-93
 paris, 19 april 1993
 
 un/esa joint training course on satellite applications
 to be held in italy, 19-30 april
 
 the united nations and the european space agency (esa)
 are jointly organising a training course on the applications of
 satellite data gathered by the european remote sensing
 satellite (ers-1), to be held in frascati, italy, from 19 to 30
 april. the training course will discuss the applications of
 satellite data concerning natural resources, renewable energy
 and the environment.
 
 the training course, organised for the benefit of francophone
 african experts, will be hosted by esrin, the european space
 agency's establishment in frascati, which is responsible for
 coordination with the users of data from esa's remote sensing
 satellite. twenty-four experts in the field of remote sensing,
 selected from 19 francophone countries from northern, western
 and central africa, and three regional african centres, will
 attend the two-week session. the course will focus on remote
 sensing techniques and data applications, particularly ers-1
 data.
 
 the ers-1 satellite, developed by esa and launched in 1991
 with the european ariane launcher, carries an advanced radar
 instrument and is the first in a series of radar remote sensing
 missions that will ensure availability of data beyond the year
 2000. the aim of the training course is to increase the
 potential of experts using the practical applications of radar
 remote sensing systems to natural resources, renewable energy
 and the environment, with particular emphasis on applications
 to geology and mineral prospecting, oceanography and near-
 coastal areas, agriculture, forestry and meteorology.
 
 the education and practical training programme was
 developed jointly by the united nations and esa. the
 facilities and the technical support, as well as lecturers and
 information documents for the training course, will be
 provided by the agency. lecturers at the training course will
 include high-level experts from other european and african
 organisations active in remote sensing applications. funds for
 the training course are being provided by the united nations
 
 
 
 trust fund for new and renewable sources of energy; the
 primary contributor to that fund is the government of italy.
 
 a similar training course is being planned for latin american
 experts.
 
 
 