
 in article <c5sy4s.4x2.1@cs.cmu.edu> 18084tm@msu.edu (tom) writes:
 
    nick haines sez;
    >(given that i've heard the shuttle software rated as level 5 in
    >maturity, i strongly doubt that this [having lots of bugs] is the case).
 
    level 5?  out of how many?  what are the different levels?  i've never
    heard of this rating system.  anyone care to clue me in?
 
 this is a rating system used by arpa and other organisations to
 measure the maturity of a `software process' i.e. the entire process
 by which software gets designed, written, tested, delivered, supported
 etc.
 
 see `managing the software process', by watts s. humphrey, addison
 wesley 1989. an excellent software engineering text. the 5 levels of
 software process maturity are:
 
 1. initial
 2. repeatable
 3. defined
 4. managed
 5. optimizing
 
 the levels are approximately characterized as follows:
 
 1. no statistically software process control. have no statistical
    basis for estimating how large software will be, how long it will
    take to produce, how expensive it will be, or how reliable it will
    be.  most software production is at this level.
 
 2. stable process with statistical controls, rigorous project
    management; having done something once, can do it again. projects
    are planned in detail, and there is software configuration
    management and quality assurance.
 
 3. the process is defined and understood, implementation is
    consistent. this includes things like software inspection, a
    rigorous software testing framework, more configuration management,
    and typically a `software engineering process group' within the
    project.
 
 4. statistical information on the software is systematically gathered
    and analysed, and the process is controlled on the basis of this
    information. software quality is measured and has goals.
 
 5. defects are prevented, the process is automated, software contracts
    are effective and certified.
 
 nick haines nickh@cmu.edu
 