
 in article <1993apr20.211638.168730@zeus.calpoly.edu> jgreen@trumpet.calpoly.edu (james thomas green) writes:
 >has anyone looked into the possiblity of a proton/centaur combo?
 >what would be the benefits and problems with such a combo (other
 >than the obvious instability in the xssr now)?
 
 i haven't seen any speculation about it. but, the salyut kb (design bureau) 
 was planning a new lh/lox second stage for the proton which would boost
 payload to leo from about 21000 to 31500 kg. (geostationary goes from
 2600 kg. (gals launcher version) to 6000 kg.. this scheme was competing
 with the energia-m last year and i haven't heard which won, except now
 i recently read that the central specialized kb was working on the 
 successor to the soyuz booster which must be the energia-m. so the early
 results are energia-m won, but this is a guess, nothing is very clear in 
 russia. i'm sure if salyut kb gets funds from someone they will continue 
 their development. 
 
 the centaur for the altas is about 3 meters dia. and the proton 
 is 4 so that's a good fit for their existing upper stage, the block-d
 which sets inside a shround just under 4 meters dia. i don't know about
 launch loads, etc.. but since the centaur survives titan launches which
 are probably worse than the proton (those titan srb's probably shake things
 up pretty good) it seems feasible. except, the centaur is a very fragile
 thing and may require integration on the pad which is not available now.
 protons are assembled and transported horizontially. does anyone know 
 how much stress in the way of a payload a centaur could support while
 bolted to a proton horizontally and then taken down the rail road track
 and erected on the pad?  
 
 they would also need lox and lh facilities added to the proton pads 
 (unless the new proton second stage is actually built), and of course
 any centaur support systems and facilities, no doubt imported from the
 us at great cost. these systems may viloate us law so there are political
 problems to solve in addition to the instabilities in the cis you mention. 
 
 dennis newkirk (dennisn@ecs.comm.mot.com)
 motorola, land mobile products sector
 schaumburg, il
 