
 
                           speech by pete worden
                                     
           delivered before the u.s. space foundation conference
                                     
                        colorado springs, colorado
                                     
                              april 15, 1993
 
 
      what a delightful opportunity to cause some trouble.  for
 providing me this forum i would sincerely like to thank the u.s.
 space foundation.  my topic today is the single stage rocket
 technology rocket or ssrt.  by i intend to speak of more.  how to
 lower the cost and make rapid progress.  ssrt is to my mind --
 and i hope to convince you -- the erupting a new rallying cry for
 our generation in space -- faster, cheaper, and better.
 
      faster, cheaper, better and ssrt represent the passing of a
 torch from one technical generation to another.  it is a new
 thing to be sure -- but it is also a relearning of old things
 from past masters.
 
      when we rolled out the ssrt baby two weeks ago, so called
 experts told us it violates the laws of physics -- it made no
 sense.  for example, dr. eberhart rachtin - former president of
 the aerospace corp., said of ssrt in the l.a. times that it,
 "defies the best principles of launching payloads into space." 
 well dr. rachtin -- you've made us mad!  what are these
 principles that ssrt defies?
 
      well i'll tell you.  it violates the principle that you need
 a giant program office to build space hardware.  it violates the
 "fact" that it takes 20 years to build something new.  and it
 violates the truism that you cant do anything significant for
 less than many billions of dollars.
 
      it took some of the last generation's experts to teach us
 some new/old lessons.  werhner von braun's first rocket was not a
 saturn v.  general schriever's icbm's didn't take ten years to
 demonstrate.  and the x-1 airplane didn't cost $1 billion.
 
      it took one of the great engineers of the 1950's to remind
 us of these truths -- max hunter.  max, to remind you, was a
 senior engineer in the thor irbm program, and old faster, better,
 cheaper success story.  max has been persistent in a vision of a
 single stage reusable space launch system since the 1960's. 
 because he knew it had to be done in affordable steps - build a
 little, test a little.
 
      next he persuaded us to do a technology demonstration.  we
 didn't solicit a bunch of requirements -- they'd just change
 every few years anyway.  [ not included in the speech -- the
 als/nls has such ephemeral requirements that it would better
 known as "shape shifter" than "space lifter."  we didn't spend a
 lot money -- this x-rocket only cost $60 million.  when's the
 last time we even built a new airplane for that?  and it didn't
 take a lot of time to build -- mcdonnell douglas completed it in
 18 months.  finally, the government program office consisted of
 one very over-worked air force major -- motivated in part by the
 threat that he'd get to ride on it in a strapped-on lawn chair if
 it ran over cost or schedule.
 
      as i described what ssrt is -- and isn't keep in mind its
 only a first step.  there are several more steps -- and steps
 that can easily fail -- before the u.s. can field an ssto.  but
 each step should follow the same principles -- a small management
 team -- a few years technology demonstration -- and a modest
 budget.
 
      let me show a few details on ssrt and how it might evolve:
 (see charts)
 
      i'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with the last
 generation -- the giants of the last great space era, the 1950's
 and 1960's.  they went to the moon - we built a telescope that
 can't see straight.  they soft-landed on mars - the least we
 could do is soft-land on earth!
 
      but we do have an answer.  we can follow their build a
 little, test a little philosophy to produce a truly affordable
 and routine access to space.  i know there are nay sayers among
 you -- those who say ssrt is a stunt.  it needs more thermal
 protection, the engines are wrong, it would be better to land
 horizontally, etc, etc.
 
      i say to you -- we'll see you at white sands in june.  you
 bring your view-graphs, and i'll bring my rocketship.  if we do
 what we say we can do, then you let us do the next step.  [ not
 included in the speech:  if we fail -- you still have your
 program offices, staff summary sheets, requirement analyses, and
 decade long programs.]
 
      i bet on my generation and max hunter's idea -- any takers?
 