
 
 
 
 
 press release no.19-93
 paris, 22 april 1993
 
 users of esa's olympus satellite report on the outcome of
 their experiments
 
 "today europe's space telecommunications sector would not
 be blossoming as it now does, had olympus not provided
 a testbed for the technologies and services of the 1990s". this
 summarises the general conclusions of 135 speakers and 300
 participants at the conference on olympus utilisation held in
 seville on 20-22-april 1993. the conference was organised by
 the european space agency (esa) and the spanish centre for
 the development of industrial technology (cdti).
 
 olympus has been particularly useful :
 -      in bringing satellite telecommunications to thousands of
        new users, thanks to satellite terminals with very small
        antennas (vsats). olympus experiments have tested
        data transmission, videoconferencing, business television,
        distance teaching and rural telephony, to give but a few
        examples.
 
 -      in opening the door to new telecommunications services
        which could not be accommodated on the crowded lower-
        frequency bands; olympus was the first satellite over
        europe to offer capacity in the 20/30 ghz band.
 
 -      in establishing two-way data relay links  olympus
        received for the first time in europe, over several months,
        high-volume data from a low-earth orbiting spacecraft and
        then distributed it to various centres in europe.
 
 when olympus was launched on 12 july 1989 it was the
 world's largest telecommunications satellite; and no other
 satellite has yet equalled its versatility in combining four
 different payloads in a wide variety of frequency bands.
 
 olympus users range from individual experimenters to some
 of the world's largest businesses. access to the satellite is
 given in order to test new telecommunications techniques or
 services; over the past four years some 200 companies and
 organisations made use of this opportunity, as well as over
 100 members of the eurostep distance-learning
 organisation.
 
 
 
 as the new technologies and services tested by these
 olympus users enter the commercial market, they then
 make use of operational satellites such as those of
 eutelsat.
 
 olympus utilisation will continue through 1993 and 1994,
 when the spacecraft will run out of fuel as it approaches the
 end of its design life.
 
        
 