
 i have 19 (2 mb worth!) uuencode'd gif images contain charts outlining
 one of the many alternative space station designs being considered in
 crystal city.  mr. mark holderman works down the hall from me, and can
 be reached for comment at (713) 483-1317, or via e-mail at
 mholderm@jscprofs.nasa.gov.
 
 mark proposed this design, which he calls "geode" ("rough on the
 outside, but a gem on the inside") or the "et strongback with
 integrated hab modules and centrifuge."  as you can see from file
 geodea.gif, it uses a space shuttle external tank (et) in place of much
 of the truss which is currently part of space station freedom.  the
 white track on the outside of the et is used by the station remonte
 manipulator system (srms) and by the reaction control system (rcs)
 pod.  this allows the rcs pod to move along the track so that thrusting
 can occur near the center of gravity (cg) of the station as the mass
 properties of the station change during assembly.
 
 the inline module design allows the shuttle to dock more easily because
 it can approach closer to the station's cg and at a structurally strong
 part of the station.  in the current ssf design, docking forces are
 limited to 400 pounds, which seriously constrains the design of the
 docking system.
 
 the et would have a hatch installed pre-flight, with little additional
 launch mass.  we've always had the ability to put an et into orbit
 (contrary to some rumors which have circulated here), but we've never
 had a reason to do it, while we have had some good reasons not to
 (performance penalties, control, debris generation, and eventual
 de-orbit and impact footprint).  once on-orbit, we would vent the
 residual h2.  the et insulation (sofi) either a) erodes on-orbit from
 impact with atomic oxygen, or b) stays where it is, and we deploy a
 kevlar sheath around it to protect it and keep it from contaminating
 the local space environment.  option b) has the advantage of providing
 further micrometeor protection.  the et is incredibly strong (remember,
 it supports the whole stack during launch), and could serve as the
 nucleus for a much more ambitious design as budget permits.
 
 the white module at the end of et contains a set of control moment
 gyros to be used for attitude control, while the rcs will be used
 for gyro desaturation.  the module also contains a de-orbit system
 which can be used at the end of the station's life to perform a
 controlled de-orbit (so we don't kill any more kangaroos, like we
 did with skylab).
 
 the centrifuge, which has the same volume as a hab module, could be
 used for long-term studies of the effects of lunar or martian gravity
 on humans.  the centrifuge will be used as a momentum storage device
 for the whole attitude control system.  the centrifuge is mounted on
 one of the modules, opposite the et and the solar panels.
 
 this design uses most of the existing ssf designs for electrical,
 data and communication systems, getting leverage from the ssf work
 done to date.
 
 mark proposed this design at joe shea's committee in crystal city,
 and he reports that he was warmly received.  however, the rumors
 i hear say that a design based on a wingless space shuttle orbiter
 seems more likely.
 
 please note that this text is my interpretation of mark's design;
 you should see his notes in the gif files.  
 
 instead of posting a 2 mb file to sci.space, i tried to post these for
 anon-ftp in ames.arc.nasa.gov, but it was out of storage space.  i'll
 let you all know when i get that done.
 
 -- ken jenks, nasa/jsc/gm2, space shuttle program office
       kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov  (713) 483-4368
 
      "...development of the space station is as inevitable as 
       the rising of the sun." -- wernher von braun
 