
       ethnocentric usian that i am, i've assumed that we and the
 xussr were the only countries with significant capabilities to track
 non-cooperative objects in low earth orbit. grazing in a couple of 
 databases recently,  i found that japan has some optical capabilities
 along this line, and also uses a radar designed for other purposes
 for orbital debris surveys (it isn't clear whether the radar can 
 determine orbital elements for the objects it detects). abstracts of 
 the articles are appended. 
 
 
     this leads to the more general question: do yet other people than 
 the us, russia, and japan do space surveillance, and if so, how and 
 why? 
 
 allen thomson              saic                        mclean, va, usa
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                          abstracts
 
 optical tracking of the experimental geodetic satellite (egs)
 takabe, masao; itabe, toshikazu; aruga, tadashi
 radio research laboratory, review (issn 0033-801x), vol. 34,
 march 1988, p. 23-34. in japanese, with abstract in english.
      this paper reports the optical tracking results of egs
 (experimental geodetic satellite) which was launched on august 13,
 1986, by nasda. the egs optical tracking experiment process and an
 outline of the radio research laboratory (rrl) optical ground       <----
 station are discussed. a star tracking technique for optical
 equipment calibration and satellite tracking technique for orbit
 prediction improvement are also described. the accuracy of egs
 tracking data obtained by rrl at the request of nasda is also
 discussed. in addition, it is briefly demonstrated that the
 position of the japanese amateur satellite (jas-1) which was
 launched with the egs, was accurately determined by means of a      <----
 satellite tracking video. it is clear from this experiment that     <----
 optical observation data (i.e., satellite direction data) are very  <----
 useful for satellite orbit determination during initial launch      <----
 stages. furthermore, the results confirm the effectivenes of these  <----
 two satellite optical tracking techniques.                          <----
 
 
 mu radar measurements of orbital debris
 sato, toru; kayama, hidetoshi; furusawa, akira; kimura, iwane
 (kyoto university, japan)
 aiaa, nasa, and dod, orbital debris conference: technical issues and 
 future directions, baltimore, md, apr. 16-19, 1990. 10 p. 
 rpn: aiaa paper 90-1343
      distributions of orbital debris versus height and scattering cross 
 section are determined from a series of observations made with a high-
 power vhf doppler radar (mu radar) of japan. an automated data 
 processing algorithm has been developed to discriminate echoes of 
 orbiting objects from those of undesired signals such as meteor trail 
 echoes or lightning atmospherics. although the results are preliminary, 
 they showed good agreement with those from norad tracking radar      <----
 observations using a much higher frequency. it is found that the     <----
 collision frequency of a space station of 1 km x 1 km size at an 
 altitude of 500 km with orbiting debris is expected to be as high as 
 once per two years. 
 
 
 monitoring of the mu radar antenna pattern by satellite ohzora (exos-c)
 sato, t.; inooka, y.; fukao, s. (kyoto univ., japan); kato, s.
 kyoto univ., uji (japan). radio atmospheric science center.
 in international council of scientific unions, middle atmosphere program.
 handbook for map, vol. 20 5 p
 publication date: jun. 1986
       as the first attempt among mst (mesosphere stratosphere 
 troposphere) type radars, the mu (middle and upper atmosphere) radar 
 features an active phased array system. unlike the conventional large 
 vhf radars, in which output power of a large vacuum tube is distributed 
 to individual antenna elements, each of 475 solid state power amplifier 
 feeds each antenna element. this system configuration enables very fast 
 beam steering as well as various flexible operations by dividing the 
 antenna into independent subarrays, because phase shift and signal 
 division/combination are performed at a low signal level using 
 electronic devices under control of a computer network. the antenna 
 beam can be switched within 10 microsec to any direction within the 
 zenith angle of 30 deg. since a precise phase alignment of each element 
 is crucial to realize the excellent performance of this system, careful 
 calibration of the output phase of each power amplifier and antenna 
 element was carried out. among various aircraft which may be used for 
 this purpose artificial satellites have an advantage of being able to 
 make a long term monitoring with the same system. an antenna pattern 
 monitoring system for the mu radar was developed using the scientific 
 satellite ohzora (exos-c). a receiver named mum (mu radar antenna 
 monitor) on board the satellite measures a cw signal of 100 to 400 
 watts transmitted from the mu radar. the principle of the measurement 
 and results are discussed.
 
 
 equatorial radar system
 fukao, shoichiro;  tsuda, toshitaka; sato, toru; kato, susumu
 (kyoto university, uji, japan)
 (cospar, iaga, scostep, et al., plenary meeting, 27th,
 workshops and symposium on the earth's middle atmosphere,
 espoo, finland, july 18-29, 1988) advances in space research
 (issn 0273-1177), vol. 10, no. 10, 1990, p. 151-154.
      a large clear air radar with the sensitivity of an incoherent 
 scatter radar for observing the whole equatorial atmosphere up to 1000 
 km altitude is now being designed in japan. the radar will be built in 
 pontianak, west kalimantan, indonesia (0.03 deg n, 109.29 deg e). the 
 system is a 47-mhz monostatic doppler radar with an active phased array 
 configuration similar to that of the mu radar in japan, which has been 
 in successful operation since 1983. it will have a pa product of about 
 3 x 10 to the 9th w sq m (p = average transmitter power, a = effective 
 antenna aperture) with a sensitivity of approximately 10 times that of 
 the mu radar. this system configuration enables pulse-to-pulse beam 
 steering within 20 deg from the zenith. as is the case of the mu radar, 
 a variety of operations will be made feasible under the supervision of 
 the radar controller. a brief description of the system configuration 
 is presented. 
 
 