
 in article <1993apr23.184732.1105@aio.jsc.nasa.gov>, kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov writes...
 
    {description of "external tank" option for ssf redesign deleted}
 
 >mark proposed this design at joe shea's committee in crystal city,
 >and he reports that he was warmly received.  however, the rumors
 >i hear say that a design based on a wingless space shuttle orbiter
 >seems more likely.
 
 yo ken, let's keep on-top of things! both the "external tank" and
 "wingless orbiter" options have been deleted from the ssf redesign
 options list. today's (4/23) edition of the new york times reports
 that o'connor told the panel that some redesign proposals have
 been dropped, such as using the "giant external fuel tanks used
 in launching space shuttles," and building a "station around
 an existing space shuttle with its wings and tail removed."
 
 currently, there are three options being considered, as presented
 to the advisory panel meeting yesterday (and as reported in
 today's times).
 
 option "a" - low cost modular approach
 this option is being studied by a team from msfc. {as an aside,
 there are ssf redesign teams at msfc, jsc, and larc supporting
 the srt (station redesign team) in crystal city. both lerc and
 reston folks are also on-site at these locations, helping the respective
 teams with their redesign activities.} key features of this
 option are:
   -  uses "bus-1", a modular bus developed by lockheed that's
      qualified for sts and elv's. the bus provides propulsion, gn&c
      communications, & data management. lockheed developed this
      for the air force.
   -  a "power station capability" is obtained in 3 shuttle flights.
      ssf solar arrays are used to provide 20 kw of power. the vehicle
      flies in an "arrow mode" to optimize the microgravity environment.
      shuttle/spacelab missions would utilize the vehilce as a power
      source for 30 day missions.
   -  human tended capability (as opposed to the old ssf sexist term
      of man-tended capability) is achieved by the addition of the
      us common module. this is a modified version of the existing
      ssf lab module (docking ports are added for the international
      partners' labs, taking the place of the nodes on ssf). the
      shuttle can be docked to the station for 60 day missions.
      the orbiter would provide crew habitability & eva capability.
   -  international human tended. add the nasda & esa modules, and
      add another 20 kw of power
   -  permanent human presence capability. add a 3rd power module,
      the u.s. habitation module, and an acrv (assured crew return
      vehicle).
 
 option "b" - space station freedom derived
 the option "b" team is based at larc, and is lead by mike griffin.
 this option looks alot like the existing ssf design, which we
 have all come to know and love :)
 
 this option assumes a lightweight external tank is available for
 use on all ssf assembly flights (so does option "a"). also, the 
 number of flights is computed for a 51.6 inclination orbit,
 for both options "a" and "b".
 
 the build-up occurs in six phases:
   -  initial research capability reached after 3 flights. power
      is transferred from the vehicle to the orbiter/spacelab, when
      it visits.
   -  man-tended capability (griffin has not yet adopted non-sexist
      language) is achieved after 8 flights. the u.s. lab is
      deployed, and 1 solar power module provides 20 kw of power.
   -  permanent human presence capability occurs after 10 flights, by
      keeping one orbiter on-orbit to use as an acrv (so sometimes
      there would be two orbiters on-orbit - the acrv, and the
      second one that comes up for logistics & re-supply).
   -  a "two fault tolerance capability" is achieved after 14 flights,
      with the addition of a 2nd power module, another thermal
      control system radiator, and more propulsion modules.
   -  after 20 flights, the internationals are on-board. more power,
      the habitation module, and an acrv are added to finish the
      assembly in 24 flights.
 
 most of the systems currently on ssf are used as-is in this option, 
 with the exception of the data management system, which has major
 changes.
 
 option c - single core launch station.
 this is the jsc lead option. basically, you take a 23 ft diameter
 cylinder that's 92 ft long, slap 3 space shuttle main engines on
 the backside, put a nose cone on the top, attached it to a 
 regular shuttle external tank and a regular set of solid rocket
 motors, and launch the can. some key features are:
   - complete end-to-end ground integration and checkout
   - 4 tangentially mounted fixed solar panels
   - body mounted radiators (which adds protection against
     micrometeroid & orbital debris)
   - 2 centerline docking ports (one on each end)
   - 7 berthing ports
   - a single pressurized volume, approximately 26,000 cubic feet
     (twice the volume of skylab).
   - 7 floors, center passageway between floors
   - 10 kw of housekeeping power
   - graceful degradation with failures (8 power channels, 4 thermal
     loops, dual environmental control & life support system)
   - increased crew time for utilization
   - 1 micro-g thru out the core module
 