
 
 i've been to three talks in the last month which might be of interest. i've 
 transcribed some of my notes below.  since my note taking ability is by no means
 infallible, please assume that all factual errors are mine.  permission is 
 granted to copy this without restriction.
 
 michael sternberg, cheif of operations of rimsat, was invited to speak at an
 informal lunch held by acdis here on the campus of the university of illinois.
 acdis is an organization on campus that deals with arms control, disarmament and
 international security.  rimsat was considered an appropriate topic because the
 company is using russian launchers and satellites.  i think it also helped that
 his daughter is a grad student in the international relations program.
 
 the concept behind rimsat apparently began when matt neilson (?) went to tonga
 to visit a friend.  while he was there, he somehow ended up visiting the king,
 who happened to be a big tv fan.  matt bought the king a satellite dish, which 
 the king thought was really nifty.  since tonga has a gnp of about $70 million,
 his majesty asked if there was any way to make money off this.  matt thought
 there probably was, so at his suggestion, tonga applied for 31 geosynchronous
 satellite slots.  while this isn't entirely off the wall, it was very unusual,
 seeing as tonga was a tiny kingdom with no space program, and 31 is a lot of
 slots.
 
 the whole thing was debated in the appropriate regulatory agency and carl
 hilliard (who is apparently a respected space lawyer) wrote several opinions
 supporting tonga's case.  eventually tonga ended up with 7 slots, ranging from 
 70 e to 170 e (slots are designated by the longitude over which they reside).
 according to sternberg, four of these, from 130 e to 142 e are the best in the
 world because they are excellently placed for communications between hawaii and 
 the pacific rim. 
 
 rimsat was formed to use these slots. it was officially formed in nevis as a tax
 haven.  they tried for a few years to raise funds in the west, however, to
 fill 7 slots with western satellites launched on western launchers would have
 cost approximately $2 billion.  it's not easy to raise that kind of money.
 eventually, they hit upon the idea of using russian hardware.  they began 
 negotiating with glavkosmos for hardware.  mr sternberg describes operating in 
 moscow in such harsh terms that i don't think i'll visit there for a long time.
 besides a significant lack of creature comforts, he was not happy with the way
 that people operate.  for example "everybody can sell you everything."  
 everyone can show the proper documents and licenses that indicate they are the
 only ones who have the authority to sell what ever you want to by.
 
 eventually, rimsat arranged a deal with glavkosmos for 6 satellites at a cost
 of $150 million.  however, glavkosmos lost favor after the coup.  sternberg
 says that this is because they were basically a bunch of kgb operatives who 
 went to trade shows and picked up lots of brochures.  since glavkosmos was
 out of power, he had to renegotiate the deal with the new authorities.  he
 again described life in a moscow hotel in rather unfavorable terms.  eventually,
 he worked out a deal and on dec 4, 1992 he met with koptev, who heads the 
 russian space program, to sign the deal.  koptev insisted on a few concessions
 before signing and according to sternberg he arranged these new rules to 
 allow himself to form another company to do the exact same thing as rimsat.
 
 the next step was to meet with the builders of the hardware, npo applied 
 mechanics -- npo pm to use their acronym.  this organization is located in 
 siberia (can't figure out how to spell the town, i need an atlas) and has built
 about 1500 vehicles since the dawn of the space age.  sternberg commented that
 siberians are very different from musovites.  they are hard workers, honest
 people who team up to get things done, very much like midwesterners.  at this
 point there were some comments from the audience that agreed with his opinion on
 both siberians and midwesterners :-)
 
 sternberg had lots of good things to say about npo pm.  his company is 
 apparently lookng for $100 million to invest in the firm to become 50% partners.it apparently costs the russians about $4 million to build a satellite that
 would sell for $50 million in the west.  if you want to give them 
 specifications, they'll build you a satellite.  for the particular satellites
 that rimsat will be using, costs run about $378,000 per transponder year.  this
 compares to $810,000 t/y in the u.s.  they can sell their time for about $1.1
 million compared to $2.6 million in the u.s.  rimsat will launch their 
 satellites on protons.  to get the best prices, they bought in bulk.  they 
 have the rights to twelve launches, so if any of you need a lift i can give
 you their address.  the first launch is scheduled for october and they are
 getting one used satellite from the russians, which is being moved into place
 now.
 
 tidbits:
 
 *  sternberg says this kind of thing has to be done by entrepreneurs, not big
 business because big business is just like what they have over there, except
 that "we have better paper, both in the bathroom and in the copier."
 
 *  russian launches are self insured.  the promise to replace a failed launch
 within 9 months.
 
 *  major investors in rimsat include russell 20/20, which is a huge retirement
 fund organization, cellsat, which is a big telecom business in southeast asia,
 and a fund operated by some of the big names in u.s aerospace which he says is
 sort of an insurance policy for them if this really takes off.
 
 *  he downplayed the instabilites in the ex-ussr saying that we are worried
 partly because we aren't used to seeing russia as anything but an unvarying
 monolith.  italy gets a new government "every two weeks" but we don't worry 
 because we're used to it.  he predicted that once we get used to seeing what
 really goes on in russia we won't worry about their stability as much.
 
 *  part of the problem with cooperative ventures is the problem of transfering
 money.  the central bank has a policy of taking hard currency payments, putting
 25% in their coffers and replacing the rest with the "equivalent" value in 
 rubles.  to get around this, rimsat pays their hard currency into an austrian
 bank account.  npo pm then pays their contractors with foreign currency so that
 the only the contractors get swindled by the government.
 
 *  one of the big problems rimsat has had is stonewalling by the western 
 satellite industry.  however, intelsat recently bought three of the same type
 of satellites, which was rather reassuring.
 
 *  the biggest worry most people have about russian satellites is the primitive
 technology and shorter lifetime.  the older gorizont (horizon) satellites have
 a lifetime of about 5 years, while the more modern express satellites compare
 well with western technology and last about 8 years.  while this is much 
 shorter than 15 years for western satellites, sternberg downplayed the 
 difference.  at these prices they can afford to launch new ones.  in addition,
 shorter lifetimes mean that they can replace their equipment with newer
 technology so they will be able to compete better than older, out of date
 hardware.
 
 -- 
 josh hopkins                                          jbh55289@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
 		    "find a way or make one."
 	             -attributed to hannibal
 