
 prb@access.digex.com (pat) writes:
 
 >  what  evidence  indicates that gamma ray bursters are very far away?
 
 >given the enormous  power,  i was just wondering,  what if they are
 >quantum  black holes or something  like that  fairly close by?
 
 >why would they have to be at  galactic ranges?   
 
 gamma ray bursts (grbs) are seen coming equally from all directions.
 however, given the number of bright ones, there are too few faint
 ones to be consistent with being equally dense for as far
 as we can see--it is as if they are all contained within
 a finite sphere (or a sphere with fuzzy edges) with us at the
 center.  (these measurements are statistical, and you can
 always hide a sufficiently small number of a different
 type of grb with a different origin in the data.  i am assuming
 that there is only one population of grbs).
 
 the data indicates that we are less than 10% of the radius of the center
 of the distribution.  the only things the earth is at the exact center
 of are the solar system (at the scale of the oort cloud of comets
 way beyond pluto) and the universe.  cosmological theories, placing
 grbs throughout the universe, require supernova-type energies to
 be released over a timescale of milliseconds.  oort cloud models
 tend to be silly, even by the standards of astrophysics.
 
 if grbs were galactic (i.e. distributed through the milky way galaxy)
 you would expect them to be either concentrated in the plane of
 the galaxy (for a 'disk' population), or towards the galactic center
 (for a spherical 'halo' population).  we don't see this, so if they
 are galactic, they must be in a halo at least 250,000 light years in
 radius, and we would probably start to see grbs from the andromeda
 galaxy (assuming that it has a similar halo.)  for comparison, the
 earth is 25,000 light-years from the center of the galaxy.
 
 >my own pet theory is that it's  flying saucers  entering
 >hyperspace :-)
 
 the aren't concentrated in the known spacelanes, and we don't
 see many coming from zeta reticuli and tau ceti.
 
 >but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes  that they
 >are  colliding nuetron stars  or  spinning black holes,  i just wondered
 >if any mechanism could exist  and place them  closer in.
 
 there are more than 130 grb different models in the refereed literature.
 right now, the theorists have a sort of unofficial moratorium
 on new models until new observational evidence comes in.
 
 -- 
 		david m. palmer		palmer@alumni.caltech.edu
 					palmer@tgrs.gsfc.nasa.gov
 