
    two developments have brought these type of activities back to
 the forefront in 1993.  first, in february, the russians deployed a
 20-m reflector from a progress vehicle after it had departed from
 the mir space station.  while this "banner" reflector was blank,
 npo energia was very active in reporting that future  banner
 reflectors will be available to advertisers, who could use a space-
 based video of their logo or ad printed on the banner in a tv
 commercial, as filmed from the mir.
    the second development, has been that space marketing inc, the
 same company responsible for merchandising space on the conestoga
 booster and comet spacecraft, is now pushing the "environmental
 billboard".  as laid out by smi chief engineer dr ron humble of the
 university of colorado space laboratory and preston carter of the
 lawrence livermore national laboratory, the "environmental
 billboard" is a large inflatable outer support structure of up to
 804x1609 meters.  advertising is carried by a mylar reflective area,
 deployed by the inflatable 'frame'.
    to help sell the concept, the spacecraft responsible for
 maintaining the billboard on orbit will carry "ozone reading
 sensors" to "continuously monitor the condition of the earth's
 delicate protective ozone layer," according to mike lawson, head of
 smi. furthermore, the inflatable billboard has reached its minimum
 exposure of 30 days it will be released to re-enter the earth's
 atmosphere. according to imi, "as the biodegradable material burns,
 it will release ozone-building components that will literally
 replenish the ozone layer." the remaining spacecraft will monitor
 the atmosphere for another year before it, too, re-enters and burns
 up and "adds to the ozone supply."
    this would not be a cheap advertisement, costing at least several
 millions of dollars (exact costs were not available).  but smi
 estimates that market exposure would be 3-5x that of the people who
 watched the superbowl, where a 30-second advertising 'unit' cost
 $600,000.  since smi is located in atlanta, georgia, it is being
 promoted as being available in time for the opening of the 1996
 summer olympics in atlanta.
   
 but back to brian's questions:
 >and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the wn
 >news blip?  how serious is this project?  is this just in the "wild
 >idea" stage or does it have real funding?
   
     see above. as for serious -- if they can get $15-20 m or so (my
 estimate of $5-10 for development costs and a flight unit, plus
 $10-15 m for a launch), then it's probably real.  they are claiming to
 tailor the orbit to overfly specific locations at specific times for
 optimum advertising impact so they probably can't piggy back upon
 someone else's planned launch and will have to buy a dedicated
 launch.  that's a $10-15 m cost they need to raise, right there.
     and there will probably be some legal challenges to this as
 well.  note there is one potential legal challenge to smi on the use
 of launch vehicle advertising already.  while i don't think the
 legal challenges would win out (and yes, i am an amateur astronomer,
 and no, i don't really like the idea of this additional light
 pollution, but i know of no prohibition of it...),  the legal
 challenges and court fights would probably remove any positive
 aspects of the advertising.  i can imagine several ways to make the
 advertisers look like louts for doing this -- which would change
 positive market exposure to negative market exposure, and negate the
 space advertising advantage.  (would you spend $15 m to look like an
 idiot?)
    (and light pollution might not be too bad -- if it's in a low
 enough orbit, and it relies upon reflected light only, it would
 only be visible for a short time just after local dusk and before
 dawn.  for maximum market exposure, you want to have it visible just
 after dusk --minimizing impact on astronomy, since that's the time
 of worse seeing due to day/night thermal turbulence.  it might still
 be a problem, but perhaps there are ways to mitigate this...)
     as for having real funding -- none that i can identify.  there
 were about 60 expressions of interest made on the conestoga
 advertising opportunity, but that included curious folks and was for
 only a $500,000 commitment.  i haven't heard of any serious funding
 for this, but i'm sure they are shopping the venture around looking
 for some money in order to flesh out the concept some more.  but i
 am confident there are no firm or paying customers at this time.
   
    and if anybody wants to cross-post this to sci.astro, please be
 my guest.  i don't have posting privileges to that area (or at least
 i don't think i do...).
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  wales larrison                            space technology investor
 
 --- maximus 2.01wb
 