
 brian yamauchi asks: [regarding orbital billboards...]
 >and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the wn
 >news blip?  how serious is this project?  is this just in the "wild
 >idea" stage or does it have real funding?
   
     well, i had been collecting data for next edition of the
 commercial space news/space technology investor... to summarize:
   
 space advertising
     first, advertising on space vehicles is not new -- it is very
 common practice to put the cooperating organization's logos on the
 space launch vehicle.  for example, the latest gps launcher had the
 (very prominent) logos on its side of
    - mcdonnell douglas (the delta launcher)
    - rockwell international (who built the gps satellite)
    - usaf (who paid for the satellite and launch), and
    - the gps/navstar program office
    this has not been considered "paid advertising" but rather
 "public relations", since the restrictions have been such that only
 organizations involved in the launch could put their logos on the
 side, and there was no money exchanged for this.  [however, putting
 a 10' high logo on the side of the launch vehicle facing the cameras
 is "advertising" as much as it is "public relations", in my
 opinion.]  [and by the way, i note that the dc-x test vehicle has
 rather prominent mcdonnell-douglas and sdio logos on the side...]
    there have been several studies looking at the revenue potentials
 for use of space vehicles for advertising, or placing large
 advertising signs in orbit.  on the shuttle, for example, i know of
 several serious studies in the early and mid 1980's which looked at
 putting logos on the external tank, or on the sides of the payload
 bay.  these ventures would be different than "public relations", in
 that the logos or displays would not be restricted to the firms
 participating on that flight, and would involve payment of sums for
 the right to fly the logos in a prominent organization.  (for
 example, painting the et to look like a pepsi can, or putting a
 disneyworld logo on the inside of the payload bay where the cameras
 would scan past it.)
   
 adverts on launch vehicles
    the first paid advertising was done on a soviet launcher in about
 1990, when several non-involved foreign organizations were allowed
 to pay to put their logos on a proton launch.  (an italian shoe
 company was one of the first advertisers, i remember.)  similarly,
 soviet cosmonauts on mir made a paid advertisement for the last
 olympic games, and have gleefully shown banners and other items from
 participating firms and organizations.  mars candy bars, for
 example, got a plug from orbit as a sponsor of the launch of the
 british visiting cosmonaut to mir.
    now us firms are starting to put paid advertisements on launch
 vehicles.  the upcoming conestoga launch (in june) putting the comet
 recoverable payload capsule into orbit will have paid advertisements
 on the side, for arnold schwarzenegger's upcoming movie "the last
 action hero".  besides the usual logos of the participating
 organizations, columbia pictures has paid $500,000 to put ads on the
 main fuselage of the mission's conestoga rocket, its booster
 rockets, and on the comet payload, which will orbit the earth for
 one month.  a concept for this advertising display was published in
 space news magazine a couple of months ago.
    (as a side note: robert lorsch, an advertising executive, is
 talking about suing nasa.  he charges nasa with appropriating an idea he
 created with the space agency in 1981 to form corporate advertising
 sponsorships on nasa spacecraft as a way to get funding for the
 space program.  lorsch contends that in selling advertising space on
 the upcoming comet, nasa violated an agreement that it "would not use
 his idea without him being the exclusive representative for nasa and
 receiving compensation."   this is being disputed, since the launch
 is a "commercial launch" and nasa is receiving none of the
 advertising revenues, but the funding for the comet program is
 coming from nasa.)
   
 orbital "billboards"
    orbital "billboards" have been the staple of science fiction for
 some time.  arthur c. clarke wrote about one example, and robert
 heinlein described another in "the man who sold the moon".  several
 different potential projects have been developed, although none have
 been implemented, but the most real prior to 1993 being the "eiffel
 ii" project, which would have placed a large inflatable sculpture in
 orbit to celebrate the french republic's bi-centennial.
                                                 (cont)
 
 --- maximus 2.01wb
 