
                           the electronic journal of
                   the astronomical society of the atlantic
 
                        volume 4, number 9 - april 1993
 
                          ###########################
 
                               table of contents
 
                          ###########################
 
           * asa membership and article submission information
 
           * the soviets and venus, part 3 - larry klaes
 
                          ###########################
 
                          asa membership information
 
         the electronic journal of the astronomical society of the atlantic
     (ejasa) is published monthly by the astronomical society of the
     atlantic, incorporated.  the asa is a non-profit organization dedicated
     to the advancement of amateur and professional astronomy and space
     exploration, as well as the social and educational needs of its members.
 
         asa membership application is open to all with an interest in
     astronomy and space exploration.  members receive the journal of the
     asa (hardcopy sent through united states mail - not a duplicate of this
     electronic journal) and the astronomical league's reflector magazine.
     members may also purchase discount subscriptions to astronomy and
     sky & telescope magazines.
 
         for information on membership, you may contact the society at any
     of the following addresses:
 
         astronomical society of the atlantic (asa)
         c/o center for high angular resolution astronomy (chara)
         georgia state university (gsu)
         atlanta, georgia  30303
         u.s.a.
 
         asa@chara.gsu.edu
 
         asa bbs: (404) 321-5904, 300/1200/2400 baud
 
         or telephone the society recording at (404) 264-0451 to leave your
     address and/or receive the latest society news.
 
         asa officers and council -
 
         president - eric greene
         vice president - jeff elledge
         secretary - ingrid siegert-tanghe
         treasurer - mike burkhead
         directors - becky long, tano scigliano, bob vickers
         council - bill bagnuolo, michele bagnuolo, don barry, bill black, 
                   mike burkhead, jeff elledge, frank guyton, larry klaes, 
                   ken poshedly, jim rouse, tano scigliano, john stauter, 
                   wess stuckey, harry taylor, gary thompson, cindy weaver, 
                   bob vickers
 
 
                              article submissions
 
         article submissions to the ejasa on astronomy and space exploration
     are most welcome.  please send your on-line articles in ascii format to
     larry klaes, ejasa editor, at the following net addresses or the above
     society addresses:
 
         klaes@verga.enet.dec.com
         or - ...!decwrl!verga.enet.dec.com!klaes
         or - klaes%verga.dec@decwrl.enet.dec.com
         or - klaes%verga.enet.dec.com@uunet.uu.net
 
         you may also use the above addresses for ejasa back issue requests,
     letters to the editor, and asa membership information.
 
         when sending your article submissions, please be certain to include
     either a network or regular mail address where you can be reached, a
     telephone number, and a brief biographical sketch.
 
         back issues of the ejasa are also available from the asa anonymous 
     ftp site at chara.gsu.edu (131.96.5.29).  directory: /pub/ejasa
 
                                 disclaimer
 
         submissions are welcome for consideration.  articles submitted,
     unless otherwise stated, become the property of the astronomical
     society of the atlantic, incorporated.  though the articles will not
     be used for profit, they are subject to editing, abridgment, and other
     changes.  copying or reprinting of the ejasa, in part or in whole, is
     encouraged, provided clear attribution is made to the astronomical
     society of the atlantic, the electronic journal, and the author(s).
     opinions expressed in the ejasa are those of the authors' and not
     necessarily those of the asa.  this journal is copyright (c) 1993
     by the astronomical society of the atlantic, incorporated.
 
 
                              the soviets and venus
                                      part 3
 
                        copyright (c) 1993 by larry klaes
 
 	the author gives permission to any group or individual wishing
 	to distribute this article, so long as proper credit is given,
         the author is notified, and the article is reproduced in its 
         entirety.
 
         to the north pole!
 
         on june 2 and 7, 1983, two of the soviet union's mighty proton 
     rockets lifted off from the tyuratam space center in the kazakhstan 
     republic.  aboard those boosters were a new breed of venera probe 
     for the planet venus. 
 
         designated venera 15 and 16, the probes were meant not for landing
     yet more spherical craft on the venerean surface but to radar map the
     planet in detail from orbit.  to accomplish this task, the basic
     venera design was modified in numerous areas.  the central bus core
     was made one meter (39.37 inches) longer to carry the two tons of
     propellant required for braking into orbit, double the fuel carried by
     the venera 9 and 10 orbiters eight years earlier.  extra solar panels
     were added on to give the vehicles more power for handling the large
     amounts of data which would be created by the radar imaging.  the
     dish-shaped communications antennae were also made one meter larger 
     to properly transmit this information to earth. 
 
         atop the buses, where landers were usually placed, were installed
     the 1.4 by 6-meter (4.62 by 19.8-foot), 300-kilogram (660-pound)
     polyus v side-looking radar antennae.  the radar system, possibly a
     terrain-imaging version of the nuclear-powered satellites used by 
     the soviets for earth ocean surveillance, would be able to map venus'
     surface at a resolution of one to two kilometers (0.62 to 1.2 miles). 
 
         the soviet probes' imaging parameters were a vast improvement over
     the united states pioneer venus orbiter, which could reveal objects 
     no smaller than 75 kilometers (45 miles) in diameter.  and while the
     veneras' resolution was comparable to that of similar observations 
     made by the 300-meter (1,000-foot) arecibo radio telescope on the 
     island of puerto rico, the orbiters would be examining the northern
     pole of venus.  this region was unobtainable by either arecibo or 
     pioneer venus and appeared to contain a number of potentially 
     interesting geological features worthy of investigation.
 
         on october 10, 1983, after an interplanetary journey of 330 
     million kilometers (198 million miles) and two mid-course corrections, 
     venera 15 fired its braking rockets over venus to place itself in a 
     polar orbit 1,000 by 65,000 kilometers (600 by 39,000 miles) around 
     the planet, completing one revolution every twenty-four hours.  venera 
     16 followed suit four days later.  the twin probes thus became venus' 
     first polar-circling spacecraft.
 
         radar operations began on october 16 for venera 15 and october 20 
     for venera 16.  for up to sixteen minutes every orbit over the north
     pole, the probes would make a radar sweep of the surface 150 kilometers 
     (ninety miles) wide and nine thousand kilometers (5,400 miles) long.  
     the craft would then head out to the highest part of their orbits over 
     the south pole to recharge their batteries and transmit the data back 
     to two large soviet antennae on earth.  each strip of information took 
     eight hours to process by computer.  by the end of their main missions 
     in july of 1984, the veneras had mapped 115 million square kilometers 
     (46 million square miles), thirty percent of the entire planet.
 
         venera 15 and 16 revealed that venus has a surface geology more
     complex than shown by pioneer venus in the late 1970s.  numerous hills, 
     mountains, ridges, valleys, and plains spread across the landscape, 
     many of them apparently formed by lava from erupting volcanoes in the 
     last one billion years.  in planetary terms this makes the venerean 
     surface rather young.  hundreds of craters were detected as well, the 
     largest of which had to have been created by meteorites (planetoids 
     would be a better term here) at least fourteen kilometers (8.4 miles) 
     across, due to venus' very dense atmosphere.
 
         there were some disagreements between u.s. and soviet scientists
     on the origins of certain surface features.  for example, the probes' 
     owners declared that the 96-kilometer (57.6-mile) wide crater at the 
     summit of 10,800-meter (35,640-foot) high maxwell montes, the tallest 
     mountain on the planet, was the result of a meteorite impact.  american 
     scientists, on the other hand, felt the crater was proof that maxwell 
     was a huge volcano sitting on the northern "continent" of ishtar terra.  
 
         in any event, the u.s. decided to wait on making verdicts about
     venus until the arrival of their own radar probe, scheduled for later
     in the decade.  originally named the venus orbiting imaging radar
     (voir), its initial design was scaled back and the craft was redesig-
     nated the venus radar mapper (vrm).  eventually the machine would be 
     called magellan, after the portuguese navigator ferdinand magellan 
     (circa 1480-1521).  this vehicle would map the entire planet in even 
     finer detail than the veneras.  for the time, however, the soviet 
     probes maintained that distinction.
 
         radar imaging was not the only ability of the veneras.  bolted
     next to the polyus v radar antenna were the omega altimeter and the 
     fourier infrared spectrometer, the latter for measuring the world's
     temperatures.  the majority of the areas covered registered about
     five hundred degrees celsius (932 degrees fahrenheit), but a few
     locations were two hundred degrees hotter, possibly indicating 
     current volcanic activity.  the probes also found that the clouds 
     over the poles were five to eight kilometers (three to 4.8 miles) 
     lower than at the equator.  in contrast, the polar air above sixty 
     kilometers (thirty-six miles) altitude was five to twenty degrees 
     warmer than the equatorial atmosphere at similar heights.
 
         when the main mapping mission ended in july of 1984, there were 
     plans for at least one of the veneras to radar image the surface at 
     more southernly latitudes.  unfortunately this idea did not come to 
     pass, as the orbiters may not have possessed enough attitude-control
     gas to perform the operation.  
 
         venera 15 and 16 ceased transmission in march of 1985, leaving 
     the soviet institute of radiotechnology and electronics with six 
     hundred kilometers (360 miles) of radar data tape to sort into an 
     atlas of twenty-seven maps of the northern hemisphere of venus.
 
         venus by balloon
 
         for years the thick atmosphere of venus had been a tempting 
     target to scientists who wished to explore the planet's mantle of 
     air with balloon-borne instruments.  professor jacques blamont of 
     the french space agency centre national d'etudes spatiales (cnes)
     had proposed such an idea as far back as 1967, only to have a joint 
     french-soviet balloon mission canceled in 1982.  nevertheless, 
     late in the year 1984, such dreams would eventually come true.
 
         when two proton rockets were sent skyward on december 15 and 21, 
     the soviet union provided western observers with the first clear, full 
     views of the booster which had been launching every soviet venus probe 
     since 1975.  this was but one of many firsts for the complex mission.
 
         the unmanned probes launched into space that december were named
     vega 1 and 2, a contraction of the words venera and gallei - gallei
     being the russian word for halley.  not only did the spacecraft 
     have more than one mission to perform, they also had more than one 
     celestial objective to explore, namely the comet halley.  
 
         this famous periodic traveler was making its latest return to 
     the inner regions of the solar system since its last visit in 1910.
     since it was widely believed that comets are the icy remains from
     the formation of the solar system five billion years ago, scientists 
     around the world gave high priority to exploring one of the few such 
     bodies which actually come close to earth.  
 
         most comets linger in the cold and dark outer fringes of the solar 
     system.  some, like halley, are perturbed by various forces and fall 
     in towards the sun, where they circle for millennia spewing out ice 
     and debris for millions of kilometers from the warmth of each solar 
     encounter.
 
         the soviet union, along with the european space agency (esa) and
     japan's institute of space and astronautical science (isas), did not
     wish to miss out on this first opportunity in human history to make a
     close examination of halley.  the esa would be using the cylindrical
     giotto probe to make a dangerously close photographic flyby of the 
     comet, while japan's first deep space craft - sakigake (pioneer) and 
     suisei (comet) - would view halley from a much safer distance. 
 
         scientists in the united states also desired to study the comet
     from the vantage of a space probe, at one time envisioning a vessel
     powered by solar sails or ion engines.  however, government budget
     cuts to nasa canceled the american efforts.  the u.s. would have to
     make do primarily with earth-based observations and the sharing of 
     data from other nations, though an instrument named the dust counter 
     and mass analyzer (ducma), designed by chicago university professor 
     john simpson, was added on the soviet mission in may of 1984.
 
         the soviets' answer to halley were the vegas.  instead of building
     an entirely new craft for the mission, the soviets decided to modify
     their venera bus design to encounter the comet while performing an 
     advanced venus mission along the way.  as vega 1 and 2 reached venus,
     the buses would drop off one lander/balloon each and use the mass of 
     the shrouded planet to swing them towards comet halley, much as the 
     u.s. probe mariner 10 used venus to flyby mercury eleven years earlier. 
     the soviet craft would then head on to halley, helping to pinpoint the 
     location of the comet's erupting nucleus for the giotto probe to dive 
     in only 605 kilometers (363 miles) away in march of 1986.
 
         as planned, the two vegas arrived at venus in june of 1985.  vega
     1 released its payload first on the ninth day of the month, the lander
     making a two-day descent towards the planet.  the craft touched the
     upper atmosphere on the morning of june 11.  sixty-one kilometers
     (36.6 miles) above the venerean surface a small container was released
     by the lander, which produced a parachute at 55 kilometers (33 miles)
     altitude.  thus the first balloon probe ever to explore venus had
     successfully arrived. 
 
         one kilometer after the opening of the parachute, helium gas was
     pumped into the teflon-coated plastic balloon, inflating it to a
     diameter of 3.54 meters (11.68 feet).  dangling on a tether thirteen
     meters (42.9 feet) below was the instrument package, properly known as
     an aerostat.  the top part of the 6.9-kilogram (15.18-pound) aerostat
     consisted of a cone which served as an antenna and tether attachment
     point to the balloon.  beneath it was the transmitter, electronics,
     and instruments.  connected at the bottom was a nephelometer for
     measuring cloud particles.  the aerostat was painted with a special
     white finish to keep at bay the corroding mist of sulfuric acid which
     permeated the planet's atmosphere. 
 
         the vega 1 balloon was dropped into the night side of venus just
     north of the equator.  scientists were concerned that the gas bag 
     would burst in the heat of daylight, so they placed it in the darkened 
     hemisphere to give the craft as much time as possible to return data.  
     this action necessitated that the landers come down in the dark as 
     well, effectively removing the camera systems used on previous missions.  
     the author wonders, though, if they could have used floodlights similar 
     to the ones attached to venera 9 and 10 in 1975, when soviet scientists 
     had thought the planet's surface was enshrouded in a perpetual twilight 
     due to the permanently thick cloud cover.
 
         the first balloon transmitted for 46.5 hours right into the day
     hemisphere before its lithium batteries failed, covering 11,600
     kilometers (6,960 miles).  the threat of bursting in the day heat did
     not materialize.  the vega 1 balloon was stationed at a 54-kilometer
     (32.4-mile) altitude after dropping ballast at fifty kilometers
     (thirty miles), for this was considered the most active of the three
     main cloud layers reported by pioneer venus in 1978.  indeed the
     balloon was pushed across the planet at speeds up to 250 kilometers
     (150 miles) per hour.  strong vertical winds bobbed the craft up and
     down two to three hundred meters (660 to 990 feet) through most of the
     journey.  the layer's air temperature averaged forty degrees celsius
     (104 degrees fahrenheit) and pressure was a mere 0.5 earth atmosphere.
     the nephelometer could find no clear regions in the surrounding clouds. 
 
         early in the first balloon's flight, the vega 1 lander was already
     headed towards the venerean surface.  both landers were equipped with
     a soil drill and analyzer similar to the ones carried on venera 13 
     and 14 in 1982.  however, vega 1 would become unable to report the
     composition of the ground at its landing site in rusalka planitia, the
     mermaid plain north of aphrodite terra.  while still ten to fifteen
     minutes away from landing, a timer malfunction caused the drill to 
     accidentally begin its programmed activity sixteen kilometers (9.6 
     miles) above the surface. 
 
         there was neither any way to shut off the instrument before
     touchdown nor reactivate it after landing.  this was unfortunate not
     only for the general loss of data but also for the fact that most of
     venus was covered with such smooth low-level lava plains and had never 
     before been directly examined.  nevertheless, the surface temperature 
     and pressure was calculated at 468 degrees celsius (874.4 degrees 
     fahrenheit) and 95 earth atmospheres respectively during the lander's 
     56 minutes of ground transmissions.  a large amount of background 
     infrared radiation was also recorded at the site.
 
         as had been done when the drills and cameras on venera 11 and 
     12 had failed in december of 1978, the soviets focused on the data
     returned during the lander's plunge through the atmosphere.  the
     french-soviet malachite mass spectrometer detected sulfur, chlorine, 
     and possibly phosphorus.  it is the sulfur - possibly from active 
     volcanoes - which gives the venerean clouds their yellowish color.
     the sigma 3 gas chromatograph found that every cubic meter of air
     between an altitude of 48 and 63 kilometers (28.8 and 37.8 miles)
     contained one milligram (0.015 grain) of sulfuric acid.
 
         the vega 1 data on the overall structure of the cloud decks 
     appeared to be at odds with the information from pioneer venus.
     the case was made even stronger by the fact that vega 2's results
     nearly matched its twin.  the vegas found only two main cloud layers 
     instead of the three reported by the u.s. probes.  the layers were 
     three to five kilometers (1.8 to 3 miles) thick at altitudes of 50 
     and 58 kilometers (30 and 34.8 miles).  the clouds persisted like a
     thin fog until clearing at an altitude of 35 kilometers (21 miles), 
     much lower than the pv readings.  one possibility for the discrepan-
     cies may have been radical structural changes in the venerean air 
     over the last seven years.
 
         when the lander and balloon finally went silent, the last 
     functioning part of the vega 1 mission, the flyby bus, sailed on
     for a 708 million-kilometer (424.8 million-mile) journey around
     the sun to become the first probe to meet comet halley.  on march
     6, 1986, the bus made a 8,890-kilometer (5,334-mile) pass at the 
     dark and icy visitor before traveling on in interplanetary space.
     the soviets had accomplished their first mission to two celestial
     bodies with one space vessel.
 
         on june 13, vega 2 released its lander/balloon payload for
     a two-day fall towards venus.  like its duplicate, the vega 2
     balloon radioed information back to the twenty antennae tracking
     it on earth for 46.5 hours before battery failure on the morning
     side of the planet.  during its 11,100-kilometer (6,660-mile)
     flight over venus, the second balloon entered in a rather still
     environment which became less so twenty hours into the mission.
     after 33 hours mission time the air became even more turbulent 
     for a further eight hours.  when the balloon passed over a five-
     kilometer (three-mile) mountain on the "continent" of aphrodite 
     terra, a powerful downdraft pulled the craft 2.5 kilometers (1.5 
     miles) towards the surface.
 
         temperature sensors on the vega 2 balloon reported that the air 
     layer it was moving through was consistently 6.5 degrees celsius 
     (43.7 degrees fahrenheit) cooler than the area explored by the vega 1
     balloon.  this was corroborated by the vega 2 lander as it passed 
     through the balloon's level.  no positive indications of lightning
     were made by either balloon, and the second aerostat's nephelometer 
     failed to function.
 
         the vega 2 lander touched down on the northern edge of aphrodite
     terra's western arm on the fifteenth of june, 1,500 kilometers (900
     miles) southeast of vega 1.  the lander's resting place was smoother
     than thought, indicating either a very ancient and worn surface or a
     relatively young one covered in fresh lava.  the soil drill was in
     working order and reported a rock type known as anorthosite-troctolite, 
     rare on earth but present in luna's highlands.  this rock is rich in 
     aluminum and silicon but lacking in iron and magnesium.  a high degree 
     of sulfur was also present in the soil.  the air around vega 2 measured 
     463 degrees celsius (865.4 degrees fahrenheit) and 91 earth atmospheres,
     essentially a typical day (or night) on venus.
 
         far above the vega 2 lander, its carrier bus sped past venus at
     a distance of 24,500 kilometers (14,700 miles) and followed its twin 
     to comet halley, making a closer flyby on march 9, 1986 at just 8,030 
     kilometers (4,818 miles).  both probes helped to reveal that the comet 
     is a very dark and irregular-shaped mass about fourteen kilometers 
     (8.4 miles) across, rotating once every 53 hours, give or take three 
     hours.
 
         since both vega craft were still functioning after their halley
     encounters, soviet scientists considered an option to send the 
     probes to other celestial objects.  one prime target was the near-
     earth planetoid 2101 adonis, which vega 2 could pass at a distance 
     of six million kilometers (3.6 million miles).  sadly, the soviets 
     had to back out on the opportunity to become the first nation to fly 
     a spacecraft past a planetoid when it was discovered that there was 
     not enough maneuvering fuel in the probe to reach adonis as planned.  
     vega 1 and 2 were quietly shut down in early 1987.
 
         future plans diverted
 
         the impressive vega mission had given some scientists numerous 
     ideas and hope for even more ambitious expeditions to the second 
     world from the sun.  one example was the vesta mission, planned for
     the early 1990s.
 
         this soviet-french collaboration called for the launch of multiple 
     probes on a single proton rocket in either 1991 or 1992.  the craft 
     would first swing by venus and drop off several landers and balloon 
     probes.  the aerostats would be designed to survive in the planet's 
     corrosive atmosphere for up to one month, a large improvement over 
     the vega balloons' two days.  the mission would then head out to 
     investigate several planetoids and comets, including a possible 
     landing on vesta (thus the mission name), the most reflective main 
     belt planetoid as seen from earth.
 
         unfortunately for venus exploration, plans began to change in
     the soviet union.  in 1986 the soviets decided to reroute the vesta
     mission to the red planet mars instead of venus, keeping the comet
     and planetoid aspects intact.  by this time in the soviet space 
     program interest was focusing on mars.  already under construction 
     was an entirely new probe design called phobos.  two members of this 
     class were planned to leave earth in 1988 and orbit mars the next 
     year.  phobos 1 and 2 would then place the first instruments on
     mars' largest moon, phobos. 
 
         all this was a prelude to even more advanced mars expeditions,
     including balloon probes, rovers, soil sample return craft, and 
     eventually human explorers in the early twenty-first century.
     the environment of venus was just too hostile for any serious
     consideration of human colonization in the near future.
 
         but things began to look bleak for soviet venus and mars
     exploration.  both phobos probes failed to complete their missions,
     one losing contact on the way to the red planet in 1988 and the other
     going silent in mars orbit just one week before the planned moon
     landing in march of 1989. 
 
         in 1989 a plan was devised for a venus orbiter to drop eight to
     ten penetrators around the planet in 1998.  several years later the
     mission launch date was moved to the year 2005 and has now been put 
     on indefinite hold.  no other official soviet missions to venus have
     since been put forth, a sad commentary after twenty-five years of
     continuous robotic exploration of the planet. 
 
         during the late 1980s a drastic political and economic change
     was taking over the soviet union.  president mikhail gorbachev began 
     to "open up" his nation to the benefits of increased cooperation with 
     the rest of the nations, particularly those in the west.  while the 
     culture became less oppressive than in the past, the economy was taking 
     a very rough ride as it also underwent the effects of a "free market".
 
         these effects hit everywhere, including the space program.
     missions at all levels were cut back.  the soviets began making
     almost desperate attempts to cooperate with other space-faring
     nations either to keep their remaining programs alive or just to 
     make money.  
 
         in early 1992 it was reported that the soviets were offering for 
     sale several fully-equipped veneras they had in storage for the price 
     of 1.6 million dollars each, an incredibly low price for any planetary 
     probe.  no nation took them up on the bargain.  meanwhile the united 
     states was gearing up for new venus missions of their own.
 
         magellan and galileo 
 
         the u.s. reactivated their long-dormant planetary exploration
     with the launch of the space shuttle atlantis on may 4, 1989.
     aboard the shuttle was the magellan spacecraft, a combination of
     spare parts from other u.s. probes designed to make the most 
     detailed and complete radar-mapping of venus in history.  when
     magellan reached the second world in august of 1990, it would be
     able to map almost the entire planet down to a resolution of 108
     meters (360 feet), surpassing the abilities of venera 15 and 16.
 
         in the interim another american probe was launched from a space 
     shuttle which would make a quick flyby of venus on its way to orbit 
     the giant planet jupiter in 1995.  on october 18, 1989, the shuttle 
     atlantis released its second unmanned planetary probe into space, 
     named galileo after the famous italian astronomer who discovered the 
     probe's primary target's major moons in 1610.
 
         in the absence of a powerful enough booster to send galileo on
     a direct flight to the jovian planet, the probe was sent around
     venus and earth several times to build up enough speed to reach
     jupiter.  as a result, venus became galileo's first planetary
     goal in february of 1990.  the probe radioed back images of the
     planet's swirling clouds and further indications of lightning in
     that violent atmosphere.
 
         on the drawing boards
 
         with the incredible success of magellan in the last few years,
     new plans have been laid out for further journeys to venus.  scien-
     tists in the u.s. have talked to space scientists in the former soviet 
     union - now the commonwealth of independent states since january 1, 
     1992 - of a cooperative effort to launch new venera lander missions 
     within in the next decade.  japan, india, and the esa have also
     considered their own venus missions in the next few decades.
 
         in february of 1993 nasa came up with several new venus projects 
     as part of their discovery program for launching inexpensive probes
     throughout the solar system.  for venus two missions were selected
     for further study:  a venus multiprobe mission involving the landing
     of fourteen small probes over one hemisphere to measure winds, air
     temperature, and pressure; and the venus composition probe, designed
     to study venus' atmosphere while descending through the thick air
     with the aid of a parachute, much as the soviets had done since 1967.
     final project decisions will be made in 1994.
 
         humans on venus      
 
         will a human ever be able to stand on the surface of venus?
     at present the lead-melting temperatures and crushing air pressure
     would be threatening to any earth life not protected in something
     even tougher than a venera lander.  plans have been looked into
     changing the environment of venus itself into something more like
     earth's.  however, it should be noted that any such undertaking
     will require the removal of much of the thick carbon dioxide 
     atmosphere, a major reduction in surface heat, and the ability 
     to speed up the planet's rotation rate to something a bit faster
     than once every 243 earth days.  such a project may take centuries
     if not millennia.
 
         in the meantime efforts should be made to better understand
     venus as its exists today.  we still have yet to fully know how
     a world so seemingly similar to earth in many important ways became
     instead such a deadly place.  will earth ever suffer this fate?
     perhaps venus holds the answers.  such answers may best be found
     through international cooperation, including the nation which 
     made the first attempts to lift the cloudy veils from venus.
 
         bibliography -
 
          barsukov, v. l., senior editor, venus geology, geochemistry, and 
            geophysics: research results from the u.s.s.r., university of
            arizona press, tucson, 1992
 
          beatty, j. kelly, and andrew chaikin, editors, the new solar 
            system, cambridge university press and sky publishing corp.,
            cambridge, massachusetts, 1990
 
          burgess, eric, venus: an errant twin, columbia university press, 
            new york, 1985
 
          burrows, william e., exploring space: voyages in the solar
            system and beyond, random house, inc., new york, 1990
 
          chaisson, eric, and steve mcmillan, astronomy today, prentice-
            hall, inc., englewood cliffs, new jersey, 1993
 
          gatland, kenneth, the illustrated encyclopedia of space technology, 
            salamander books, new york, 1989
 
          greeley, ronald, planetary landscapes, allen and unwin, inc.,
            winchester, massachusetts, 1987
 
          hart, douglas, the encyclopedia of soviet spacecraft, exeter 
            books, new york, 1987
 
          hartmann, william k., moons and planets (third edition), wadsworth
            publishing company, belmont, california, 1993
 
          harvey, brian, race into space: the soviet space programme, 
            ellis howood limited, chichester, england, 1988
 
          henbest, nigel, the planets: portraits of new worlds, viking
            penguin books ltd., harmondsworth, middlesex, england, 1992
 
          johnson, nicholas l., soviet space programs 1980-1985, volume
            66 science and technology series, american astronautical 
            society, univelt, inc., san diego, california, 1987
 
          johnson, nicholas l., the soviet year in space 1989/1990, 
            teledyne brown engineering, colorado springs, colorado,
            1990/1991
 
          lang, kenneth r., and charles a. whitney, wanderers in space:
            exploration and discovery in the solar system, cambridge 
            university press, new york, 1991
 
          magellan: the unveiling of venus, jpl 400-345, march 1989
 
          murray, bruce, michael c. malin, and ronald greeley, earthlike
            planets: surfaces of mercury, venus, earth, moon, mars, w. h.
            freeman and company, san francisco, california, 1981
 
          murray, bruce, journey into space: the first three decades of
            space exploration, w. w. norton and company, new york, 1989
 
          newcott, william, "venus revealed", national geographic magazine, 
            volume 183, number 2, washington, d.c., february 1993
 
          nicks, oran w., far travelers: the exploring machines, nasa 
            sp-480, washington, d.c., 1985
 
          oberg, james edward, new earths: restructuring earth and other
            planets, a meridian book, new american library, inc., new
            york, 1983
 
          robertson, donald f., "venus - a prime soviet objective" (parts 
            1/2), spaceflight, volume 34, numbers 5/6, british interplanetary
            society (bis), london, england, may/june 1992
 
          smith, arthur, planetary exploration: thirty years of unmanned
            space probes, patrick stephens, ltd., wellingborough, northamp-
            tonshire, england, 1988
 
          voyage through the universe: the near planets, by the editors
            of time-life books, inc., alexandria, virginia, 1990
 
          wilson, andrew, jane's solar system log, jane's publishing, inc.,
            new york, 1987
 
         about the author -
 
         larry klaes, ejasa editor, is the recipient of the asa's 1990 
     meritorious service award for his work as editor of the ejasa since 
     its founding in august of 1989.  larry also teaches a course on
     basic astronomy at the concord-carlisle adult and community 
     education program in massachusetts.
 
         larry is the author of the following ejasa articles:
 
         "the one dream man: robert h. goddard, rocket pioneer" - august 1989
         "stopping space and light pollution" - september 1989              
         "the rocky soviet road to mars" - october 1989
         "astronomy and the family" - may 1991  
         "the soviets and venus, part 1" - february 1993
         "the soviets and venus, part 2" - march 1993
 
 
       the electronic journal of the astronomical society of the atlantic
 
                           april 1993 - vol. 4, no. 9
 
                            copyright (c) 1993 - asa
 
 