
 the following is what they feed to us..... most has been posted already,
 but there are a number of items not seen here yet.....
 
 redesign activities update -- following is the weekly status on redesign,
 based on information provided by nasa headquarters.
 
 the station redesign team (srt) provided a detailed status report to the
 advisory committee on the redesign of the space station on april 22.  the
 day-long meeting was held in anser facilities in crystal city, va; topics
 covered by the srt included a preliminary mission and goals statement for
 the space station; science, technology and engineering research; the
 assessment process; and the design approach. discussions on management
 options and operations concepts also were held.
 
 the design teams then presented the three options under study:
 
 ¥ option a - modular buildup -- pete priest presented the a option. priest
 said the team is working to define a station that meets cost goals and has
 identified three distinct phases of evolution - power station, human tended
 and permanent presence. the team will define the minimum capability needed
 to achieve each phase, the total cost of each phase and the achievable
 capability for budget levels. the a option uses current or simplified
 freedom hardware where cost effective and is considering other existing
 systems such as the so-called "bus-1 spacecraft," the orbiter and spacelab.
 
 the power station capability could be achieved in 3 flights with freedom
 photo voltaic modules providing 20 kw of power. 30-day shuttle/spacelab
 missions docked to the power station are assumed for this phase.
 
 human tended capability would be provided by the addition of the u.s.
 common module module which adds subsystems and 9 payload racks and docking
 ports for esa and japanese laboratories. 60-day missions with the orbiter
 docked to the station are assumed for this phase. different
 operation/utilization modes are being studied for this phase.
 
 ¥ option b - freedom derived -- mike griffin presented the status of option
 b activities. griffin detailed the evolution of the freedom-derived option,
 from initial research capability, to human-tended capability, to permanent
 human presence capability, to two fault tolerance, and finally permanent
 human capability. griffin also outlined proposed systems changes to the
 baseline program, with minor changes to the communications and tracking
 system, crew health care system and eclss, and a major change to the data
 management system.
 
 initial research capability would be achieved with 2 flights to 28.5 degree
 inclination (3 flights to 51.6 degrees) and consist of an extended duration
 orbiter-spacelab combination docked to a truss segment with 2 photo voltaic
 arrays providing 18.75 kw of power.
 
 human-tended capability would be achieved in 6 flights and add truss
 segments and the u.s. lab.
 
 permanent human presence capability would be achieved in 8 flights with two
 orbiters providing habitation and assured crew return.
 
 two fault tolerance, achieved in 11 flights, would build out the other
 section of truss with another set of pv modules, thermal control and
 propulsion systems.
 
 the freedom derived configuration could achieve an international complete
 state with 16 flights.  three more flights, to bring up the habitat module,
 a third pv array and two assured crew return vehicles (acrv) would complete
 the permanent human capability with international stage.
 
 griffin told the redesign advisory committee that eliminating hardware
 would not, by itself, meet budget guidelines for the freedom derived
 option.  major reductions or deferrals must occur in other areas including
 program management, contractor non-hardware, early utilization and
 operations costs, he said.
 
 ¥ option c - singe launch core station -- chet vaughn presented option c,
 the single launch core station concept.  a shuttle external tank and solid
 rocket boosters would be used  to launch the station into orbit.  shuttle
 main engines would be mounted to the tail of the station module for launch
 and jettisoned after et separation.
 
 the module, 23 feet in diameter and 92 feet long, would provide 26,000
 cubic feet of pressured volume, separated into 7 "decks" connected by a
 centralized passageway.  seven berthing ports would be located at various
 places on the circumference of the module to place the international
 modules, and other elements.  this "can" would have two fixed photo voltaic
 arrays producing approximately 40 kw of power flying in a solar interial
 attitude.
 
 in his closing comments to the redesign advisory committee, bryan o'connor
 said a design freeze would be established for the 3 options on april 26 so
 that detailed costing of the options can begin.  the next meeting with the
 redesign advisory committee will be may 3.
 
 russian consultants arrive in u.s. -- a delegation of 16 russian space
 experts arrived in the u.s. on april 21 and briefings to the srt by members
 of the russian team began on the 22nd.  the group includes russian space
 agency general director y. m. koptev, and v. a. yatsenko, also of the rsa. 
 others on the team include representatives from the ministry of defense,
 the design bureau salyut, the institute of biomedical problems, the
 ministry of foreign affairs, npo energia and tsnijmash.  the russian team
 briefed the srt on environmental control and life support system, docking
 systems, the proton launch vehicle, mir operations and utilization, and the
 soyuz tm spacecraft.
 
 the russian consultants are available to the srt to assess the capabilities
 of the mir space station, and the possible use of mir and other russian
 capabilities and systems as part of the space station redesign.  they will
 be available to the srt through may 5.
 
 management and operations review continues --  work continued in the srt
 subgroups.  the management group under dr. walt brooks is working to
 develop a family of options that solve the current problems and build a
 foundation for the transition to development and operations.  various
 management options have been developed including:
 
 ¥ lead center with the center director in the programmatic chain of
 command.
 
 ¥ host center with the program manager reporting directly to an associate
 administrator.
 
 ¥ skunk works/dedicated program office with a small dedicated co-located
 hand-picked program office.
 
 ¥ combine space station with shuttle, with the space station becoming an
 element of the current program.
 
 ¥ major tune up to current organization, with current contracts and
 geographical distribution maintained but streamlined.
 
 the operations group under dr. john cox is building on the work of the
 operations phase assessment team lead by gene kranz of nasa-jsc, which had
 already begun a comprehensive review of operations and had concluded in its
 preliminary results that significant cost reductions are possible.
 
 as part of its work,  the operations group has identified teams of agency
 experts to develop detailed evaluations of each design in the areas of
 assembly and operations, utilization, maintenance and logistics and testing
 and ground operations.
 
 what's in the week ahead? -- the design support teams will provide a
 comprehensive status of their option to the station redesign team on monday
 and tuesday at which point the design will be "frozen" to begin the
 detailed cost assessment.   also this week, the team will begin preparing
 for the next round of discussions with the redesign advisory committee, to
 be held may 3.
 
 dr. shea steps down --  dr. joe shea stepped down as director of the
 station redesign team on april 22 and bryan o'connor will take over the
 activities of the team.  dr. shea submitted his resignation as assistant
 deputy administrator for space station analysis, but will continue to serve
 as a special advisory to nasa administrator goldin and be available to
 consult with the srt. mr goldin accepted the resignation so that a request
 from dr. shea to reduce his workload could be accommodated.
 
 key milestones -- the key dates for the srt as they are currently being
 carried on the schedule are:
 
 april 26
 design freeze on options for costing
 
 april 27
 design support team present selected options to srt
 
 may 3
 status report to redesign advisory committee
 
 may 15
 interim report by redesign advisory committee
 
 june 7
 final report to redesign advisory committee
 
 
 (oct. 31-cancellation .....just my opinion...ac)
  
 