
 >>>>> on tue, 27 apr 1993 00:39:20 gmt, sarfatti@netcom.com (jack sarfatti) said:
 
 js> question: what is the power spectrum of the bursts. are their sharp lines?
 js> if so, can they be interpreted as blue-shifted atomic or molecular lines?
 
  don't remember the spectra, but have seen some autocorrelation functions
  recently.  the acfs show correlation times of milliseconds to 10s of 
  seconds; interestingly, the higher energies show a shorter correlation 
  time.
 
 js> can electron-positron annihilation gammas be seen in the bursts? are they
 js> red shifted or blue shifted?
 
  i believe there were claims from an earlier satellite (ginga?) of 
  detection of cyclotron absorption lines.  these lines were taken as 
  strong evidence for neutron stars being the objects responsible for 
  grbs since the magnetic field indicated was 1.0e12, fairly typical 
  for a neutron star.  however, compton gro has not seen any of these 
  lines and i get the impression that many are beginning to doubt whether
  these lines were ever real.
 
 js> since the bursts are isotropic and maybe in the galactic halo they may
 js> be saying something about dark matter in the halo.
 
  *if* the bursts are in the halo, they most certainly are saying something 
  about dark matter there.  however, if they are in the halo, in order 
  that they appear isotropic, the "core radius" of the halo (i.e. the 
  innermost region of the halo) has to be greater than about 50 kpc.
  the halo itself would stretch much further than this.  since the 
  andromeda galaxy is only 700 kpc away, we should be seeing bursts
  from that galaxy's halo, which we aren't.
 
 js> if the bursts are something like the cosmic black body radiation from
 js> way back then where are the red shifts - i mean cosmological red shifts?
 
  remember to get a redshift, one needs some type of emission or 
  absorption line so one can compare the observed line frequency 
  to the rest line frequency.  since no lines are seen in grb spectra, 
  that comparison cannot be made.
 
 --
                          | e-mail: lazio@astrosun.tn.cornell.edu
    t. joseph lazio       | phone:  (607) 255-6420
                          | icbm:   42 deg. 20' 08" n  76 deg. 28' 48" w
 cornell knows i exist?!? |       stop rape
 