
           
           
           (book review):
           
           
           "the universe of motion", by dewey b. larson, 1984, north 
           pacific publishers, portland, oregon, 456 pages, indexed, 
           hardcover. 
           
 
                "the universe of motion" contains final solutions to 
           most all astrophysical mysteries. 
           
                this book is volume iii of a revised and enlarged 
           edition of "the structure of the physical universe", 1959.  
           volume i is "nothing but motion" (1979), and volume ii is 
           "the basic properties of matter" (1988). 
           
                most books and journal articles on the subject of 
           astrophysics are bristling with integrals, partial 
           differentials, and other fancy mathematics.  in this book, by 
           contrast, mathematics is conspicuous by its absence, except 
           for some relatively simple formulas imbedded in the text.  
           larson emphasizes concepts and declares that mathematical 
           agreement with a theory does not guarantee its conceptual 
           validity. 
           
                dewey b. larson was a retired engineer with a bachelor 
           of science degree in engineering science from oregon state 
           university.  he developed the theory described in his books 
           while trying to find a way to mathematically calculate the 
           properties of chemical compounds based only on the elements 
           they contain. 
           
                "the universe of motion" describes the astrophysical 
           portions of larson's consistent, integrated, comprehensive, 
           general unified theory of the physical universe, a kind of 
           "grand unified field theory" that orthodox physicists and 
           astro-physicists claim to be looking for.  it is built on two 
           postulates about the physical and mathematical nature of 
           space and time: 
           
                (1) the physical universe is composed entirely of one 
           component, motion, existing in three dimensions, in discrete 
           units, and with two reciprocal aspects, space and time. 
           
                (2) the physical universe conforms to the relations of 
           ordinary commutative mathematics, its primary magnitudes are 
           absolute, and its geometry is euclidean. 
           
                from these two postulates, larson was able to build a 
           complete theoretical universe, from photons and subatomic 
           particles to the giant elliptical galaxies, by combining the 
           concept of inward and outward scalar motions with 
           translational, vibrational, rotational, and rotational-
           vibrational motions.  at each step in the development, he was 
           able to match parts of his theoretical universe with 
           corresponding parts in the real physical universe, including 
           even things not yet discovered.  for example, in his 1959 
           book, he first predicted the existence of exploding galaxies, 
           several years before astronomers started finding them.  they 
           are a necessary consequence of his comprehensive theory.  and 
           when quasars were discovered, he had a related explanation 
           ready for those also. 
           
                as a result of his theory, which he called "the 
           reciprocal system", larson totally rejected many of the 
           sacred doctrines of orthodox physicists and astrophysicists, 
           including black holes, neutron stars, degenerate matter, 
           quantum wave mechanics (as applied to atomic structure), 
           "nuclear" physics, general relativity, relativistic mass 
           increases, relativistic doppler shifts, nuclear fusion in 
           stars, and the big bang, all of which he considered to be 
           nothing more than mathematical fantasies.  he was very 
           critical of the ad hoc assumptions, uncertainty principles, 
           solutions in principle, "no other way" declarations, etc., 
           used to maintain them. 
           
                "the universe of motion" is divided into 31 chapters.  
           it begins with a description of how galaxies are built from 
           the gravitational attraction between globular star clusters, 
           which are formed from intergalactic gas and dust clouds that 
           accumulate from the decay products of cosmic rays coming in 
           from the anti-matter half of the physical universe.  (galaxy 
           formation from the mythical "big bang" is a big mystery to 
           orthodox astronomers.)  he then goes on to describe life 
           cycles of stars and how binary and multiple star systems and 
           solar systems result from type i supernova explosions of 
           single stars. 
           
                several chapters are devoted to quasars which, according 
           to larson, are densely-packed clusters of stars that have 
           been ejected from the central bulges of exploding galaxies 
           and are actually traveling faster than the speed of light 
           (although most of that speed is away from us in time). 
           
                astronomers and astrophysicists who run up against 
           observations that contradict their theories would find 
           larson's explanations quite valuable if considered with an 
           open mind.  for example, they used to believe that gamma ray 
           bursts originated from pulsars, which exist primarily in the 
           plane or central bulge of our galaxy.  but the new gamma ray 
           telescope in earth orbit observed that the bursts come from 
           all directions uniformly and do not correspond with any 
           visible objects, (except for a few cases of directional 
           coincidence).  larson's explanation is that the gamma ray 
           bursts originate from supernova explosions in the anti-matter 
           half of the physical universe, which larson calls the "cosmic 
           sector".  because the anti-matter universe exists in a 
           reciprocal relation to our material universe, with the speed 
           of light as the boundary between them, and has three 
           dimensions of time and only one dimension of space, the 
           bursts can pop into our material universe anywhere seemingly 
           at random. 
           
                larson heavily quotes or paraphrases statements from 
           books, journal articles, and leading physicists and 
           astronomers.  in this book, 351 of them are superscripted 
           with numbers identifying entries in the reference list at the 
           end of the book.  for example, a quote from the book 
           "astronomy: the cosmic journey", by william k. hartmann, 
           says, "our hopes of understanding all stars would brighten if 
           we could explain exactly how binary and multiple stars 
           form.... unfortunately we cannot."  larson's book contains 
           logical consistent explanations of such mysteries that are 
           worthy of serious consideration by all physicists, 
           astronomers, and astrophysicists. 
 
 
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (larson's books). 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important book review is encouraged. 
 
           
                                    robert e. mcelwaine
                                    b.s., physics and astronomy, uw-ec
                     
 
 