
 in article <1993apr28.200843.83413@embl-heidelberg.de>, tuparev@embl-heidelberg.de (georg tuparev) writes...
 > 
 > 
 >announcement:	the "hyperknowledge" project for nextstep
 > 
 >motivation
 > 
 >we are a heterogeneous group of scientists and students who feel that our  
 >work is continuously hindered by computer environments dominated by  
 >incompatible scientific tools and monstrous software packages (too often  
 >claiming to do everything).  
 
 >what we need is an object-oriented scientific environment where the tools  
 >we choose to use are integrated without being parts of a closed system,  
 >highly interactive, and extendable (both by the addition of our own  
 >specialized objects and by combining the available tools - graphically).   
 >the use of such an environment should be a natural extension of our work,  
 >requiring a very short learning phase and practically no  
 >user-documentation.  
 
 
 i know this is kinda off the subject of sci.space, but not really, i want to
 answer this for their, as well as everyone else's information.  what these
 people are proposing, by and large already exists and can be purchased today.
 
 it is called labview by national instruments.  it is a wonderful object
 oriented graphical programming language.  it has been implemented on
 both mac's pc's and vme unix boxes.  it is fare superior to any programming
 approach that i have ever seen and allowed us to decrease the software
 development time for our shuttle payloads by 90 percent.  this program is
 not dependendant on specific hardware and already has exensive analysis 
 capability.
 
 why re-invent the wheel on a platform that may not exist? it is a great
 idea but look out there at what is available today.  the hydrogen leak on
 the shuttle was found using this software. all ssme control and simulation
 studies, along with the real testing at msfc is handled with labview.  there
 are tons of applications, with the ability to create "virtual" instruments
 that can accomplish any specific custom task the maker desires.  with the
 addition of ieee-488 support, the computer becomes a virtual control station,
 allowing the graphic representation of remote instrumentation. with serial
 i/o support that instrument can be anywhere.  the ground control software
 for the main control of sedsat 1 will utilize this approach.
 
 dennis, university of alabama in huntsville
 