	followups into alt.fan.robert.mcelwaine, or at least consider doing so.
 followup-to: alt.fan.robert.mcelwaine
 
           
 
                               biological alchemy
                           
                         ( another form of cold fusion )
 
                ( alternative heavy element creation in universe ) 
 
                a very simple experiment can demonstrate (prove) the 
           fact of "biological transmutations" (reactions like mg + o 
           --> ca, si + c --> ca, k + h --> ca, n2 --> co, etc.), as 
           described in the book "biological transmutations" by louis 
           kervran, [1972 edition is best.], and in chapter 17 of the 
           book "the secret life of plants" by peter tompkins and 
           christopher bird, 1973: 
 
                (1) obtain a good sample of plant seeds, all of the same 
                    kind.  [some kinds might work better that others.]
 
                (2) divide the sample into two groups of equal weight 
                    and number.
 
                (3) sprout one group in distilled water on filter paper 
                    for three or four weeks.
 
                (4) separately incinerate both groups.
 
                (5) weigh the residue from each group.  [the residue of 
                    the sprouted group will usually weigh at least 
                    several percent more than the other group.]
 
                (6) analyze quantitatively the residue of each group for 
                    mineral content.  [some of the mineral atoms of the 
                    sprouted group have been transmuted into heavier 
                    mineral elements by fusing with atoms of oxygen, 
                    hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, etc..]
 
           
                biological transmutations occur routinely, even in our 
           own bodies. 
           
                ingesting a source of organic silicon (silicon with 
           carbon, such as "horsetail" extract, or radishes) can speed 
           healing of broken bones via the reaction si + c --> ca, (much 
           faster than by merely ingesting the calcium directly).  
           
                some mineral deposits in the ground are formed by micro-
           organisms fusing together atoms of silicon, carbon, nitrogen, 
           oxygen, hydrogen, etc.. 
           
                the two reactions si + c <--> ca, by micro-organisms, 
           cause "stone sickness" in statues, building bricks, etc..  
           
                the reaction n2 --> co, catalysed by very hot iron, 
           creates a carbon-monoxide poison hazard for welder operators 
           and people near woodstoves (even properly sealed ones). 
           
                some bacteria can even neutralize radioactivity! 
           
 
                all of these things and more happen, in spite of the 
           currently accepted "laws" of physics, (including the law 
           which says that atomic fusion requires extremely high 
           temperatures and pressures.) 
 
 
 
           "biological transmutations, and their applications in 
                chemistry, physics, biology, ecology, medicine, 
                nutrition, agrigulture, geology", 
           1st edition, 
           by c. louis kervran, active member of new york academy of 
                science, 
           1972, 
           163 pages, illustrated, 
           swan house publishing co.,
                p.o. box 638, 
                binghamton, ny  13902 
 
           
           "the secret life of plants", 
           by peter tompkins and christopher bird, 
           1973, 
           402 pages, 
           harper & row, 
                new york
           [chapters 19 and 20 are about "radionics".  entire book is 
                fascinating! ]
           
 
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (the two books). 
 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important information is encouraged. 
 
 
                                    robert e. mcelwaine
                                    b.s., physics and astronomy, uw-ec
 
 
 