
 this file and other text and image files from jpl missions are
 available from the jpl info public access computer site,
 reachable by internet via anonymous ftp to pubinfo.jpl.nasa.gov
 (128.149.6.2); or by dialup modem to +1 (818) 354-1333, up to
 9600 bits per second, parameters n-8-1.
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 our solar system at a glance
 
 information summary 
 pms 010-a (jpl)
 june 1991
 
 jpl 410-34-1  6/91
 
 nasa
 national aeronautics and space administration
 
 jet propulsion laboratory
 california institue of technology
 pasadena, california
 
 
 for a printed copy of this publication contact the public mail
 office at the nasa center in your geographic region.
 
 
 
 introduction
 
      from our small world we have gazed upon the cosmic ocean for
 untold thousands of years. ancient astronomers observed points of
 light that appeared to move among the stars. they called these
 objects planets, meaning wanderers, and named them after roman
 deities -- jupiter, king of the gods; mars, the god of war;
 mercury, messenger of the gods; venus, the god of love and
 beauty, and saturn, father of jupiter and god of agriculture. the
 stargazers also observed comets with sparkling tails, and meteors
 or shooting stars apparently falling from the sky.
 
      science flourished during the european renaissance.
 fundamental physical laws governing planetary motion were
 discovered, and the orbits of the planets around the sun were
 calculated. in the 17th century, astronomers pointed a new device
 called the telescope at the heavens and made startling
 discoveries.
 
      but the years since 1959 have amounted to a golden age of
 solar system exploration. advancements in rocketry after world
 war ii enabled our machines to break the grip of earth's gravity
 and travel to the moon and to other planets.
 
      the united states has sent automated spacecraft, then
 human-crewed expeditions, to explore the moon. our automated
 machines have orbited and landed on venus and mars; explored the
 sun's environment; observed comets, and made close-range surveys
 while flying past mercury, jupiter, saturn, uranus and neptune.
 
      these travelers brought a quantum leap in our knowledge and
 understanding of the solar system. through the electronic sight
 and other "senses" of our automated spacecraft, color and
 complexion have been given to worlds that for centuries appeared
 to earth-bound eyes as fuzzy disks or indistinct points of light.
 and dozens of previously unknown objects have been discovered.
 
      future historians will likely view these pioneering flights
 through the solar system as some of the most remarkable
 achievements of the 20th century.
      
 
 automated spacecraft
 
      the national aeronautics and space administration's (nasa's)
 automated spacecraft for solar system exploration come in many
 shapes and sizes. while they are designed to fulfill separate and
 specific mission objectives, the craft share much in common.
 
      each spacecraft consists of various scientific instruments
 selected for a particular mission, supported by basic subsystems
 for electrical power, trajectory and orientation control, as well
 as for processing data and communicating with earth.
 
      electrical power is required to operate the spacecraft
 instruments and systems. nasa uses both solar energy from arrays
 of photovoltaic cells and small nuclear generators to power its
 solar system missions. rechargeable batteries are employed for
 backup and supplemental power.
 
      imagine that a spacecraft has successfully journeyed
 millions of miles through space to fly but one time near a
 planet, only to have its cameras and other sensing instruments
 pointed the wrong way as it speeds past the target! to help
 prevent such a mishap, a subsystem of small thrusters is used to
 control spacecraft.
 
      the thrusters are linked with devices that maintain a
 constant gaze at selected stars. just as earth's early seafarers
 used the stars to navigate the oceans, spacecraft use stars to
 maintain their bearings in space. with the subsystem locked onto
 fixed points of reference, flight controllers can keep a
 spacecraft's scientific instruments pointed at the target body
 and the craft's communications antennas pointed toward earth. the
 thrusters can also be used to fine-tune the flight path and speed
 of the spacecraft to ensure that a target body is encountered at
 the planned distance and on the proper trajectory.
 
      between 1959 and 1971, nasa spacecraft were dispatched to
 study the moon and the solar environment; they also scanned the
 inner planets other than earth -- mercury, venus and mars. these
 three worlds, and our own, are known as the terrestrial planets
 because they share a solid-rock composition.
 
      for the early planetary reconnaissance missions, nasa
 employed a highly successful series of spacecraft called the
 mariners. their flights helped shape the planning of later
 missions. between 1962 and 1975, seven mariner missions conducted
 the first surveys of our planetary neighbors in space.
 
      all of the mariners used solar panels as their primary power
 source. the first and the final versions of the spacecraft had
 two wings covered with photovoltaic cells. other mariners were
 equipped with four solar panels extending from their octagonal
 bodies.
 
      although the mariners ranged from the mariner 2 venus
 spacecraft, weighing in at 203 kilograms (447 pounds), to the
 mariner 9 mars orbiter, weighing in at 974 kilograms (2,147
 pounds), their basic design remained quite similar throughout the
 program. the mariner 5 venus spacecraft, for example, had
 originally been a backup for the mariner 4 mars flyby. the
 mariner 10 spacecraft sent to venus and mercury used components
 left over from the mariner 9 mars orbiter program.
 
      in 1972, nasa launched pioneer 10, a jupiter spacecraft.
 interest was shifting to four of the outer planets -- jupiter,
 saturn, uranus and neptune -- giant balls of dense gas quite
 different from the terrestrial worlds we had already surveyed.
 
      four nasa spacecraft in all -- two pioneers and two voyagers
 -- were sent in the 1970s to tour the outer regions of our solar
 system. because of the distances involved, these travelers took
 anywhere from 20 months to 12 years to reach their destinations.
 barring faster spacecraft, they will eventually become the first
 human artifacts to journey to distant stars. because the sun's
 light becomes so faint in the outer solar system, these travelers
 do not use solar power but instead operate on electricity
 generated by heat from the decay of radioisotopes.
 
      nasa also developed highly specialized spacecraft to revisit
 our neighbors mars and venus in the middle and late 1970s. twin
 viking landers were equipped to serve as seismic and weather
 stations and as biology laboratories. two advanced orbiters --
 descendants of the mariner craft -- carried the viking landers
 from earth and then studied martian features from above.
 
      two drum-shaped pioneer spacecraft visited venus in 1978.
 the pioneer venus orbiter was equipped with a radar instrument
 that allowed it to "see" through the planet's dense cloud cover
 to study surface features. the pioneer venus multiprobe carried
 four probes that were dropped through the clouds. the probes and
 the main body -- all of which contained scientific instruments --
 radioed information about the planet's atmosphere during their
 descent toward the surface.
 
      a new generation of automated spacecraft -- including
 magellan, galileo, ulysses, mars observer, the comet
 rendezvous/asteroid flyby (craf) and cassini -- is being
 developed and sent out into the solar system to make detailed
 examinations that will increase our understanding of our
 neighborhood and our own planet.
      
 
 the sun
 
      a discussion of the objects in the solar system must start
 with the sun. the sun dwarfs the other bodies, representing
 approximately 99.86 percent of all the mass in the solar system;
 all of the planets, moons, asteroids, comets, dust and gas add up
 to only about 0.14 percent. this 0.14 percent represents the
 material left over from the sun's formation. one hundred and nine
 earths would be required to fit across the sun's disk, and its
 interior could hold over 1.3 million earths.
 
      as a star, the sun generates energy through the process of
 fusion. the temperature at the sun's core is 15 million degrees
 celsius (27 million degrees fahrenheit), and the pressure there
 is 340 billion times earth's air pressure at sea level. the sun's
 surface temperature of 5,500 degrees celsius (10,000 degrees
 fahrenheit) seems almost chilly compared to its core-temperature.
 at the solar core, hydrogen can fuse into helium, producing
 energy. the sun also produces a strong magnetic field and streams
 of charged particles, both extending far beyond the planets.
 
      the sun appears to have been active for 4.6 billion years
 and has enough fuel to go on for another five billion years or
 so. at the end of its life, the sun will start to fuse helium
 into heavier elements and begin to swell up, ultimately growing
 so large that it will swallow earth. after a billion years as a
 "red giant," it will suddenly collapse into a "white dwarf" --
 the final end product of a star like ours. it may take a trillion
 years to cool off completely.
 
      many spacecraft have explored the sun's environment, but
 none have gotten any closer to its surface than approximately
 two-thirds of the distance from earth to the sun. pioneers 5-11,
 the pioneer venus orbiter, voyagers 1 and 2 and other spacecraft
 have all sampled the solar environment. the ulysses spacecraft,
 launched on october 6, 1990, is a joint solar mission of nasa and
 the european space agency. after using jupiter's gravity to
 change its trajectory, ulysses will fly over the sun's polar
 regions during 1994 and 1995 and will perform a wide range of
 studies using nine onboard scientific instruments.
 
      we are fortunate that the sun is exactly the way it is. if
 it were different in almost any way, life would almost certainly
 never have developed on earth.
      
 
 mercury
 
      obtaining the first close-up views of mercury was the
 primary objective of the mariner 10 spacecraft, launched on
 november 3, 1973, from kennedy space center in florida. after a
 journey of nearly five months, which included a flyby of venus,
 the spacecraft passed within 703 kilometers (437 miles) of the
 solar system's innermost planet on march 29, 1974.
 
      until mariner 10, little was known about mercury. even the
 best telescopic views from earth showed mercury as an indistinct
 object lacking any surface detail. the planet is so close to the
 sun that it is usually lost in solar glare. when the planet is
 visible on earth's horizon just after sunset or before dawn, it
 is obscured by the haze and dust in our atmosphere. only radar
 telescopes gave any hint of mercury's surface conditions prior to
 the voyage of mariner 10.
 
      the photographs mariner 10 radioed back to earth revealed an
 ancient, heavily cratered surface, closely resembling our own
 moon. the pictures also showed huge cliffs crisscrossing the
 planet. these apparently were created when mercury's interior
 cooled and shrank, buckling the planet's crust. the cliffs are as
 high as 3 kilometers (2 miles) and as long as 500 kilometers (310
 miles).
 
      instruments on mariner 10 discovered that mercury has a weak
 magnetic field and a trace of atmosphere -- a trillionth the
 density of earth's atmosphere and composed chiefly of argon, neon
 and helium. when the planet's orbit takes it closest to the sun,
 surface temperatures range from 467 degrees celsius (872 degrees
 fahrenheit) on mercury's sunlit side to -183 degrees celsius
 (-298 degrees fahrenheit) on the dark side. this range in surface
 temperature -- 650 degrees celsius (1,170 degrees fahrenheit) --
 is the largest for a single body in the solar system. mercury
 literally bakes and freezes at the same time.
 
      days and nights are long on mercury. the combination of a
 slow rotation relative to the stars (59 earth days) and a rapid
 revolution around the sun (88 earth days) means that one mercury
 solar day takes 176 earth days or two mercury years -- the time
 it takes the innermost planet to complete two orbits around the
 sun! 
 
      mercury appears to have a crust of light silicate rock like
 that of earth. scientists believe mercury has a heavy iron-rich
 core making up slightly less than half of its volume. that would
 make mercury's core larger, proportionally, than the moon's core
 or those of any of the planets.
 
      after the initial mercury encounter, mariner 10 made two
 additional flybys -- on september 21, 1974, and march 16, 1975 --
 before control gas used to orient the spacecraft was exhausted
 and the mission was concluded. each flyby took place at the same
 local mercury time when the identical half of the planet was
 illuminated; as a result, we still have not seen one-half of the
 planet's surface.
      
 
 venus
 
      veiled by dense cloud cover, venus -- our nearest planetary
 neighbor -- was the first planet to be explored. the mariner 2
 spacecraft, launched on august 27, 1962, was the first of more
 than a dozen successful american and soviet missions to study the
 mysterious planet. as spacecraft flew by or orbited venus,
 plunged into the atmosphere or gently landed on venus' surface,
 romantic myths and speculations about our neighbor were laid to
 rest.
 
      on december 14, 1962, mariner 2 passed within 34,839
 kilometers (21,648 miles) of venus and became the first
 spacecraft to scan another planet; onboard instruments measured
 venus for 42 minutes. mariner 5, launched in june 1967, flew much
 closer to the planet. passing within 4,094 kilometers (2,544
 miles) of venus on the second american flyby, mariner 5's
 instruments measured the planet's magnetic field, ionosphere,
 radiation belts and temperatures. on its way to mercury, mariner
 10 flew by venus and transmitted ultraviolet pictures to earth
 showing cloud circulation patterns in the venusian atmosphere.
 
      in the spring and summer of 1978, two spacecraft were
 launched to further unravel the mysteries of venus. on december 4
 of the same year, the pioneer venus orbiter became the first
 spacecraft placed in orbit around the planet.
 
      five days later, the five separate components making up the
 second spacecraft -- the pioneer venus multiprobe -- entered the
 venusian atmosphere at different locations above the planet. the
 four small, independent probes and the main body radioed
 atmospheric data back to earth during their descent toward the
 surface. although designed to examine the atmosphere, one of the
 probes survived its impact with the surface and continued to
 transmit data for another hour.
 
      venus resembles earth in size, physical composition and
 density more closely than any other known planet. however,
 spacecraft have discovered significant differences as well. for
 example, venus' rotation (west to east) is retrograde (backward)
 compared to the east-to-west spin of earth and most of the other
 planets.
 
      approximately 96.5 percent of venus' atmosphere (95 times as
 dense as earth's) is carbon dioxide. the principal constituent of
 earth's atmosphere is nitrogen. venus' atmosphere acts like a
 greenhouse, permitting solar radiation to reach the surface but
 trapping the heat that would ordinarily be radiated back into
 space. as a result, the planet's average surface temperature is
 482 degrees celsius (900 degrees fahrenheit), hot enough to melt
 lead.
 
      a radio altimeter on the pioneer venus orbiter provided the
 first means of seeing through the planet's dense cloud cover and
 determining surface features over almost the entire planet.
 nasa's magellan spacecraft, launched on may 5, 1989, has been in
 orbit around venus since august 10, 1990. the spacecraft uses
 radar-mapping techniques to provide ultrahigh-resolution images
 of the surface.
 
      magellan has revealed a landscape dominated by volcanic
 features, faults and impact craters. huge areas of the surface
 show evidence of multiple periods of lava flooding with flows
 lying on top of previous ones. an elevated region named ishtar
 terra is a lava-filled basin as large as the united states. at
 one end of this plateau sits maxwell montes, a mountain the size
 of mount everest. scarring the mountain's flank is a
 100-kilometer (62-mile) wide, 2.5-kilometer (1.5-mile) deep
 impact crater named cleopatra. (almost all features on venus are
 named for women; maxwell montes, alpha regio and beta regio are
 the exceptions.) craters survive on venus for perhaps 400 million
 years because there is no water and very little wind erosion.
 
      extensive fault-line networks cover the planet, probably the
 result of the same crustal flexing that produces plate tectonics
 on earth. but on venus the surface temperature is sufficient to
 weaken the rock, which cracks just about everywhere, preventing
 the formation of major plates and large earthquake faults like
 the san andreas fault in california.
 
      venus' predominant weather pattern is a high-altitude,
 high-speed circulation of clouds that contain sulfuric acid. at
 speeds reaching as high as 360 kilometers (225 miles) per hour,
 the clouds circle the planet in only four earth days. the
 circulation is in the same direction -- west to east -- as venus'
 slow rotation of 243 earth days, whereas earth's winds blow in
 both directions -- west to east and east to west -- in six
 alternating bands. venus' atmosphere serves as a simplified
 laboratory for the study of our weather.
      
 
 earth
 
      as viewed from space, our world's distinguishing
 characteristics are its blue waters, brown and green land masses
 and white clouds. we are enveloped by an ocean of air consisting
 of 78 percent nitrogen, 21 percent oxygen and 1 percent other
 constituents. the only planet in the solar system known to harbor
 life, earth orbits the sun at an average distance of 150 million
 kilometers (93 million miles). earth is the third planet from the
 sun and the fifth largest in the solar system, with a diameter
 just a few hundred kilometers larger than that of venus.
 
      our planet's rapid spin and molten nickel-iron core give
 rise to an extensive magnetic field, which, along with the
 atmosphere, shields us from nearly all of the harmful radiation
 coming from the sun and other stars. earth's atmosphere protects
 us from meteors as well, most of which burn up before they can
 strike the surface. active geological processes have left no
 evidence of the pelting earth almost certainly received soon
 after it formed -- about 4.6 billion years ago. along with the
 other newly formed planets, it was showered by space debris in
 the early days of the solar system.
 
      from our journeys into space, we have learned much about our
 home planet. the first american satellite -- explorer 1 -- was
 launched from cape canaveral in florida on january 31, 1958, and
 discovered an intense radiation zone, now called the van allen
 radiation belts, surrounding earth.
 
      since then, other research satellites have revealed that our
 planet's magnetic field is distorted into a tear-drop shape by
 the solar wind -- the stream of charged particles continuously
 ejected from the sun. we've learned that the magnetic field does
 not fade off into space but has definite boundaries. and we now
 know that our wispy upper atmosphere, once believed calm and
 uneventful, seethes with activity -- swelling by day and
 contracting by night. affected by changes in solar activity, the
 upper atmosphere contributes to weather and climate on earth.
 
      besides affecting earth's weather, solar activity gives rise
 to a dramatic visual phenomenon in our atmosphere. when charged
 particles from the solar wind become trapped in earth's magnetic
 field, they collide with air molecules above our planet's
 magnetic poles. these air molecules then begin to glow and are
 known as the auroras or the northern and southern lights.
 
      satellites about 35,789 kilometers (22,238 miles) out in
 space play a major role in daily local weather forecasting. these
 watchful electronic eyes warn us of dangerous storms. continuous
 global monitoring provides a vast amount of useful data and
 contributes to a better understanding of earth's complex weather
 systems.
 
      from their unique vantage points, satellites can survey
 earth's oceans, land use and resources, and monitor the planet's
 health. these eyes in space have saved countless lives, provided
 tremendous conveniences and shown us that we may be altering our
 planet in dangerous ways.
      
 
 the moon
 
      the moon is earth's single natural satellite. the first
 human footsteps on an alien world were made by american
 astronauts on the dusty surface of our airless, lifeless
 companion. in preparation for the human-crewed apollo
 expeditions, nasa dispatched the automated ranger, surveyor and
 lunar orbiter spacecraft to study the moon between 1964 and 1968.
 
      nasa's apollo program left a large legacy of lunar materials
 and data. six two-astronaut crews landed on and explored the
 lunar surface between 1969 and 1972, carrying back a collection
 of rocks and soil weighing a total of 382 kilograms (842 pounds)
 and consisting of more than 2,000 separate samples.
 
      from this material and other studies, scientists have
 constructed a history of the moon that includes its infancy.
 rocks collected from the lunar highlands date to about 4.0-4.3
 billion years old. the first few million years of the moon's
 existence were so violent that few traces of this period remain.
 as a molten outer layer gradually cooled and solidified into
 different kinds of rock, the moon was bombarded by huge asteroids
 and smaller objects. some of the asteroids were as large as rhode
 island or delaware, and their collisions with the moon created
 basins hundreds of kilometers across.
 
      this catastrophic bombardment tapered off approximately four
 billion years ago, leaving the lunar highlands covered with huge,
 overlapping craters and a deep layer of shattered and broken
 rock. heat produced by the decay of radioactive elements began to
 melt the interior of the moon at depths of about 200 kilometers
 (125 miles) below the surface. then, for the next 700 million
 years -- from about 3.8 to 3.1 billion years ago -- lava rose
 from inside the moon. the lava gradually spread out over the
 surface, flooding the large impact basins to form the dark areas
 that galileo galilei, an astronomer of the italian renaissance,
 called maria, meaning seas.
 
      as far as we can tell, there has been no significant
 volcanic activity on the moon for more than three billion years.
 since then, the lunar surface has been altered only by
 micrometeorites, by the atomic particles from the sun and stars,
 by the rare impacts of large meteorites and by spacecraft and
 astronauts. if our astronauts had landed on the moon a billion
 years ago, they would have seen a landscape very similar to the
 one today. thousands of years from now, the footsteps left by the
 apollo crews will remain sharp and clear.
 
      the origin of the moon is still a mystery. four theories
 attempt an explanation: the moon formed near earth as a separate
 body; it was torn from earth; it formed somewhere else and was
 captured by our planet's gravity, or it was the result of a
 collision between earth and an asteroid about the size of mars.
 the last theory has some good support but is far from certain.
      
 
 mars
 
      of all the planets, mars has long been considered the solar
 system's prime candidate for harboring extraterrestrial life.
 astronomers studying the red planet through telescopes saw what
 appeared to be straight lines crisscrossing its surface. these
 observations -- later determined to be optical illusions -- led
 to the popular notion that intelligent beings had constructed a
 system of irrigation canals on the planet. in 1938, when orson
 welles broadcast a radio drama based on the science fiction
 classic war of the worlds  by h.g. wells, enough people believed
 in the tale of invading martians to cause a near panic.
 
      another reason for scientists to expect life on mars had to
 do with the apparent seasonal color changes on the planet's
 surface. this phenomenon led to speculation that conditions might
 support a bloom of martian vegetation during the warmer months
 and cause plant life to become dormant during colder periods.
 
      so far, six american missions to mars have been carried out.
 four mariner spacecraft -- three flying by the planet and one
 placed into martian orbit -- surveyed the planet extensively
 before the viking orbiters and landers arrived.
 
      mariner 4, launched in late 1964, flew past mars on july 14,
 1965, coming within 9,846 kilometers (6,118 miles) of the
 surface. transmitting to earth 22 close-up pictures of the
 planet, the spacecraft found many craters and naturally occurring
 channels but no evidence of artificial canals or flowing water.
 mariners 6 and 7 followed with their flybys during the summer of
 1969 and returned 201 pictures. mariners 4, 6 and 7 showed a
 diversity of surface conditions as well as a thin, cold, dry
 atmosphere of carbon dioxide.
 
      on may 30, 1971, the mariner 9 orbiter was launched on a
 mission to make a year-long study of the martian surface. the
 spacecraft arrived five and a half months after lift-off, only to
 find mars in the midst of a planet-wide dust storm that made
 surface photography impossible for several weeks. but after the
 storm cleared, mariner 9 began returning the first of 7,329
 pictures; these revealed previously unknown martian features,
 including evidence that large amounts of water once flowed across
 the surface, etching river valleys and flood plains.
 
      in august and september 1975, the viking 1 and 2 spacecraft
 -- each consisting of an orbiter and a lander -- lifted off from
 kennedy space center. the mission was designed to answer several
 questions about the red planet, including, is there life there?
 nobody expected the spacecraft to spot martian cities, but it was
 hoped that the biology experiments on the viking landers would at
 least find evidence of primitive life -- past or present.
 
      viking lander 1 became the first spacecraft to successfully
 touch down on another planet when it landed on july 20, 1976,
 while the united states was celebrating its bicentennial. photos
 sent back from the chryse planitia ("plains of gold") showed a
 bleak, rusty-red landscape. panoramic images returned by the
 lander revealed a rolling plain, littered with rocks and marked
 by rippled sand dunes. fine red dust from the martian soil gives
 the sky a salmon hue. when viking lander 2 touched down on utopia
 planitia on september 3, 1976, it viewed a more rolling landscape
 than the one seen by its predecessor -- one without visible
 dunes.
 
      the results sent back by the laboratory on each viking
 lander were inconclusive. small samples of the red martian soil
 were tested in three different experiments designed to detect
 biological processes. while some of the test results seemed to
 indicate biological activity, later analysis confirmed that this
 activity was inorganic in nature and related to the planet's soil
 chemistry. is there life on mars? no one knows for sure, but the
 viking mission found no evidence that organic molecules exist
 there.
 
      the viking landers became weather stations, recording wind
 velocity and direction as well as atmospheric temperature and
 pressure. few weather changes were observed. the highest
 temperature recorded by either craft was -14 degrees celsius (7
 degrees fahrenheit) at the viking lander 1 site in midsummer.
 
      the lowest temperature, -120 degrees celsius (-184 degrees
 fahrenheit), was recorded at the more northerly viking lander 2
 site during winter. near-hurricane wind speeds were measured at
 the two martian weather stations during global dust storms, but
 because the atmosphere is so thin, wind force is minimal. viking
 lander 2 photographed light patches of frost -- probably
 water-ice -- during its second winter on the planet.
 
      the martian atmosphere, like that of venus, is primarily
 carbon dioxide. nitrogen and oxygen are present only in small
 percentages. martian air contains only about 1/1,000 as much
 water as our air, but even this small amount can condense out,
 forming clouds that ride high in the atmosphere or swirl around
 the slopes of towering volcanoes. local patches of early morning
 fog can form in valleys.
 
      there is evidence that in the past a denser martian
 atmosphere may have allowed water to flow on the planet. physical
 features closely resembling shorelines, gorges, riverbeds and
 islands suggest that great rivers once marked the planet.
 
      mars has two moons, phobos and deimos. they are small and
 irregularly shaped and possess ancient, cratered surfaces. it is
 possible the moons were originally asteroids that ventured too
 close to mars and were captured by its gravity.
 
      the viking orbiters and landers exceeded by large margins
 their design lifetimes of 120 and 90 days, respectively. the
 first to fail was viking orbiter 2, which stopped operating on
 july 24, 1978, when a leak depleted its attitude-control gas.
 viking lander 2 operated until april 12, 1980, when it was shut
 down because of battery degeneration. viking orbiter 1 quit on
 august 7, 1980, when the last of its attitude-control gas was
 used up. viking lander 1 ceased functioning on november 13, 1983.
 
      despite the inconclusive results of the viking biology
 experiments, we know more about mars than any other planet except
 earth. nasa's mars observer spacecraft, to be launched in
 september 1992, will expand our knowledge of the martian
 environment and lead to human exploration of the red planet. 
      
 
 asteroids
 
      the solar system has a large number of rocky and metallic
 objects that are in orbit around the sun but are too small to be
 considered full-fledged planets. these objects are known as
 asteroids or minor planets. most, but not all, are found in a
 band or belt between the orbits of mars and jupiter. some have
 orbits that cross earth's path, and there is evidence that earth
 has been hit by asteroids in the past. one of the least eroded,
 best preserved examples is the barringer meteor crater near
 winslow, arizona.
 
      asteroids are material left over from the formation of the
 solar system. one theory suggests that they are the remains of a
 planet that was destroyed in a massive collision long ago. more
 likely, asteroids are material that never coalesced into a
 planet. in fact, if the estimated total mass of all asteroids was
 gathered into a single object, the object would be only about
 1,500 kilometers (932 miles) across -- less than half the
 diameter of our moon. 
 
      thousands of asteroids have been identified from earth. it
 is estimated that 100,000 are bright enough to eventually be
 photographed through earth-based telescopes.
 
      much of our understanding about asteroids comes from
 examining pieces of space debris that fall to the surface of
 earth. asteroids that are on a collision course with earth are
 called meteoroids. when a meteoroid strikes our atmosphere at
 high velocity, friction causes this chunk of space matter to
 incinerate in a streak of light known as a meteor. if the
 meteoroid does not burn up completely, what's left strikes
 earth's surface and is called a meteorite. one of the best places
 to look for meteorites is the ice cap of antarctica.
 
      of all the meteorites examined, 92.8 percent are composed of
 silicate (stone), and 5.7 percent are composed of iron and
 nickel; the rest are a mixture of the three materials. stony
 meteorites are the hardest to identify since they look very much
 like terrestrial rocks.
 
      since asteroids are material from the very early solar
 system, scientists are interested in their composition.
 spacecraft that have flown through the asteroid belt have found
 that the belt is really quite empty and that asteroids are
 separated by very large distances.
 
      current and future missions will fly by selected asteroids
 for closer examination. the galileo orbiter, launched by nasa in
 october 1989, will investigate main-belt asteroids on its way to
 jupiter. the comet rendezvous/asteroid flyby (craf) and cassini
 missions will also study these far-flung objects. scheduled for
 launch in the latter part of the 1990s, the craf and cassini
 missions are a collaborative project of nasa, the european space
 agency and the federal space agencies of germany and italy, as
 well as the united states air force and the department of energy.
 one day, space factories will mine the asteroids for raw
 materials.
      
 
 jupiter
 
      beyond mars and the asteroid belt, in the outer regions of
 our solar system, lie the giant planets of jupiter, saturn,
 uranus and neptune. in 1972, nasa dispatched the first of four
 spacecraft slated to conduct the initial surveys of these
 colossal worlds of gas and their moons of ice and rock. jupiter
 was the first port of call.
 
      pioneer 10, which lifted off from kennedy space center in
 march 1972, was the first spacecraft to penetrate the asteroid
 belt and travel to the outer regions of the solar system. in
 december 1973, it returned the first close-up images of jupiter,
 flying within 132,252 kilometers (82,178 miles) of the planet's
 banded cloud tops. pioneer 11 followed a year later. voyagers 1
 and 2 were launched in the summer of 1977 and returned
 spectacular photographs of jupiter and its family of satellites
 during flybys in 1979.
 
      these travelers found jupiter to be a whirling ball of
 liquid hydrogen and helium, topped with a colorful atmosphere
 composed mostly of gaseous hydrogen and helium. ammonia ice
 crystals form white jovian clouds. sulfur compounds (and perhaps
 phosphorus) may produce the brown and orange hues that
 characterize jupiter's atmosphere.
 
      it is likely that methane, ammonia, water and other gases
 react to form organic molecules in the regions between the
 planet's frigid cloud tops and the warmer hydrogen ocean lying
 below. because of jupiter's atmospheric dynamics, however, these
 organic compounds -- if they exist -- are probably short-lived.
 
      the great red spot has been observed for centuries through
 telescopes on earth. this hurricane-like storm in jupiter's
 atmosphere is more than twice the size of our planet. as a
 high-pressure region, the great red spot spins in a direction
 opposite to that of low-pressure storms on jupiter; it is
 surrounded by swirling currents that rotate around the spot and
 are sometimes consumed by it. the great red spot might be a
 million years old.
 
      our spacecraft detected lightning in jupiter's upper
 atmosphere and observed auroral emissions similar to earth's
 northern lights at the jovian polar regions. voyager 1 returned
 the first images of a faint, narrow ring encircling jupiter.
 
      largest of the solar system's planets, jupiter rotates at a
 dizzying pace -- once every 9 hours 55 minutes 30 seconds. the
 massive planet takes almost 12 earth years to complete a journey
 around the sun. with 16 known moons, jupiter is something of a
 miniature solar system.
 
      a new mission to jupiter -- the galileo project -- is under
 way. after a six- year cruise that takes the galileo orbiter once
 past venus, twice past earth and the moon and once past two
 asteroids, the spacecraft will drop an atmospheric probe into
 jupiter's cloud layers and relay data back to earth. the galileo
 orbiter will spend two years circling the planet and flying close
 to jupiter's large moons, exploring in detail what the two
 pioneers and two voyagers revealed.
      
 
 galilean satellites
 
      in 1610, galileo galilei aimed his telescope at jupiter and
 spotted four points of light orbiting the planet. for the first
 time, humans had seen the moons of another world. in honor of
 their discoverer, these four bodies would become known as the
 galilean satellites or moons. but galileo might have happily
 traded this honor for one look at the dazzling photographs
 returned by the voyager spacecraft as they flew past these
 planet-sized satellites.
 
      one of the most remarkable findings of the voyager mission
 was the presence of active volcanoes on the galilean moon io.
 volcanic eruptions had never before been observed on a world
 other than earth. the voyager cameras identified at least nine
 active volcanoes on io, with plumes of ejected material extending
 as far as 280 kilometers (175 miles) above the moon's surface.
 
      io's pizza-colored terrain, marked by orange and yellow
 hues, is probably the result of sulfur-rich materials brought to
 the surface by volcanic activity. volcanic activity on this
 satellite is the result of tidal flexing caused by the
 gravitational tug-of-war between io, jupiter and the other three
 galilean moons.
 
      europa, approximately the same size as our moon, is the
 brightest galilean satellite. the moon's surface displays a
 complex array of streaks, indicating the crust has been
 fractured. caught in a gravitational tug-of-war like io, europa
 has been heated enough to cause its interior ice to melt --
 apparently producing a liquid-water ocean. this ocean is covered
 by an ice crust that has formed where water is exposed to the
 cold of space. europa's core is made of rock that sank to its
 center.
 
      like europa, the other two galilean moons -- ganymede and
 callisto -- are worlds of ice and rock. ganymede is the largest
 satellite in the solar system -- larger than the planets mercury
 and pluto. the satellite is composed of about 50 percent water or
 ice and the rest rock. ganymede's surface has areas of different
 brightness, indicating that, in the past, material oozed out of
 the moon's interior and was deposited at various locations on the
 surface.
 
      callisto, only slightly smaller than ganymede, has the
 lowest density of any galilean satellite, suggesting that large
 amounts of water are part of its composition. callisto is the
 most heavily cratered object in the solar system; no activity
 during its history has erased old craters except more impacts.
 
      detailed studies of all the galilean satellites will be
 performed by the galileo orbiter.
      
 
 saturn
 
      no planet in the solar system is adorned like saturn. its
 exquisite ring system is unrivaled. like jupiter, saturn is
 composed mostly of hydrogen. but in contrast to the vivid colors
 and wild turbulence found in jovian clouds, saturn's atmosphere
 has a more subtle, butterscotch hue, and its markings are muted
 by high-altitude haze. given saturn's somewhat placid-looking
 appearance, scientists were surprised at the high-velocity
 equatorial jet stream that blows some 1,770 kilometers (1,100
 miles) per hour.
 
      three american spacecraft have visited saturn. pioneer 11
 sped by the planet and its moon titan in september 1979,
 returning the first close-up images. voyager 1 followed in
 november 1980, sending back breathtaking photographs that
 revealed for the first time the complexities of saturn's ring
 system and moons. voyager 2 flew by the planet and its moons in
 august 1981.
 
      the rings are composed of countless low-density particles
 orbiting individually around saturn's equator at progressive
 distances from the cloud tops. analysis of spacecraft radio waves
 passing through the rings showed that the particles vary widely
 in size, ranging from dust to house-sized boulders. the rings are
 bright because they are mostly ice and frosted rock.
 
      the rings might have resulted when a moon or a passing body
 ventured too close to saturn. the unlucky object would have been
 torn apart by great tidal forces on its surface and in its
 interior. or the object may not have been fully formed to begin
 with and disintegrated under the influence of saturn's gravity. a
 third possibility is that the object was shattered by collisions
 with larger objects orbiting the planet.
 
      unable either to form into a moon or to drift away from each
 other, individual ring particles appear to be held in place by
 the gravitational pull of saturn and its satellites. these
 complex gravitational interactions form the thousands of ringlets
 that make up the major rings.
 
      radio emissions quite similar to the static heard on an am
 car radio during an electrical storm were detected by the voyager
 spacecraft. these emissions are typical of lightning but are
 believed to be coming from saturn's ring system rather than its
 atmosphere, where no lightning was observed. as they had at
 jupiter, the voyagers saw a version of earth's auroras near
 saturn's poles.
 
      the voyagers discovered new moons and found several
 satellites that share the same orbit. we learned that some moons
 shepherd ring particles, maintaining saturn's rings and the gaps
 in the rings. saturn's 18th moon was discovered in 1990 from
 images taken by voyager 2 in 1981. 
 
      voyager 1 determined that titan has a nitrogen-based
 atmosphere with methane and argon -- one more like earth's in
 composition than the carbon dioxide atmospheres of mars and
 venus. titan's surface temperature of -179 degrees celsius (-290
 degrees fahrenheit) implies that there might be water-ice islands
 rising above oceans of ethane-methane liquid or sludge.
 unfortunately, voyager's cameras could not penetrate the moon's
 dense clouds.
 
      continuing photochemistry from solar radiation may be
 converting titan's methane to ethane, acetylene and -- in
 combination with nitrogen -- hydrogen cyanide. the latter
 compound is a building block of amino acids. these conditions may
 be similar to the atmospheric conditions of primeval earth
 between three and four billion years ago. however, titan's
 atmospheric temperature is believed to be too low to permit
 progress beyond this stage of organic chemistry.
 
      the exploration of saturn will continue with the cassini
 mission. the cassini spacecraft will orbit the planet and will
 also deploy a probe called huygens, which will be dropped into
 titan's atmosphere and fall to the surface. cassini will use the
 probe as well as radar to peer through titan's clouds and will
 spend years examining the saturnian system.
      
 
 uranus
 
      in january 1986, four and a half years after visiting
 saturn, voyager 2 completed the first close-up survey of the
 uranian system. the brief flyby revealed more information about
 uranus and its retinue of icy moons than had been gleaned from
 ground observations since the planet's discovery over two
 centuries ago by the english astronomer william herschel.
 
      uranus, third largest of the planets, is an oddball of the
 solar system. unlike the other planets (with the exception of
 pluto), this giant lies tipped on its side with its north and
 south poles alternately facing the sun during an 84-year swing
 around the solar system. during voyager 2's flyby, the south pole
 faced the sun. uranus might have been knocked over when an
 earth-sized object collided with it early in the life of the
 solar system.
 
      voyager 2 found that uranus' magnetic field does not follow
 the usual north-south axis found on the other planets. instead,
 the field is tilted 60 degrees and offset from the planet's
 center, a phenomenon that on earth would be like having one
 magnetic pole in new york city and the other in the city of
 djakarta, on the island of java in indonesia.
 
      uranus' atmosphere consists mainly of hydrogen, with some 12
 percent helium and small amounts of ammonia, methane and water
 vapor. the planet's blue color occurs because methane in its
 atmosphere absorbs all other colors. wind speeds range up to 580
 kilometers (360 miles) per hour, and temperatures near the cloud
 tops average -221 degrees celsius (-366 degrees fahrenheit).
 
      uranus' sunlit south pole is shrouded in a kind of
 photochemical "smog" believed to be a combination of acetylene,
 ethane and other sunlight-generated chemicals. surrounding the
 planet's atmosphere and extending thousands of kilometers into
 space is a mysterious ultraviolet sheen known as "electroglow."
 
      approximately 8,000 kilometers (5,000 miles) below uranus'
 cloud tops, there is thought to be a scalding ocean of water and
 dissolved ammonia some 10,000 kilometers (6,200 miles) deep.
 beneath this ocean is an earth-sized core of heavier materials.
 
      voyager 2 discovered 10 new moons, 16-169 kilometers (10-105
 miles) in diameter, orbiting uranus. the five previously known --
 miranda, ariel, umbriel, titania and oberon -- range in size from
 520 to 1,610 kilometers (323 to 1,000 miles) across. representing
 a geological showcase, these five moons are half-ice, half-rock
 spheres that are cold and dark and show evidence of past
 activity, including faulting and ice flows.
 
      the most remarkable of uranus' moons is miranda. its surface
 features high cliffs as well as canyons, crater-pocked plains and
 winding valleys. the sharp variations in terrain suggest that,
 after the moon formed, it was smashed apart by a collision with
 another body -- an event not unusual in our solar system, which
 contains many objects that have impact craters or are fragments
 from large impacts. what is extraordinary is that miranda
 apparently reformed with some of the material that had been in
 its interior exposed on its surface.
 
      uranus was thought to have nine dark rings; voyager 2 imaged
 11. in contrast to saturn's rings, which are composed of bright
 particles, uranus' rings are primarily made up of dark,
 boulder-sized chunks.
      
 
 neptune
 
      voyager 2 completed its 12-year tour of the solar system
 with an investigation of neptune and the planet's moons. on
 august 25, 1989, the spacecraft swept to within 4,850 kilometers
 (3,010 miles) of neptune and then flew on to the moon triton.
 during the neptune encounter it became clear that the planet's
 atmosphere was more active than uranus'. 
 
      voyager 2 observed the great dark spot, a circular storm the
 size of earth, in neptune's atmosphere. resembling jupiter's
 great red spot, the storm spins counterclockwise and moves
 westward at almost 1,200 kilometers (745 miles) per hour. voyager
 2 also noted a smaller dark spot and a fast-moving cloud dubbed
 the "scooter," as well as high-altitude clouds over the main
 hydrogen and helium cloud deck. the highest wind speeds of any
 planet were observed, up to 2,400 kilometers (1,500 miles) per
 hour.
 
      like the other giant planets, neptune has a gaseous hydrogen
 and helium upper layer over a liquid interior. the planet's core
 contains a higher percentage of rock and metal than those of the
 other gas giants. neptune's distinctive blue appearance, like
 uranus' blue color, is due to atmospheric methane.
 
      neptune's magnetic field is tilted relative to the planet's
 spin axis and is not centered at the core. this phenomenon is
 similar to uranus' magnetic field and suggests that the fields of
 the two giants are being generated in an area above the cores,
 where the pressure is so great that liquid hydrogen assumes the
 electrical properties of a metal. earth's magnetic field, on the
 other hand, is produced by its spinning metallic core and is only
 slightly tilted and offset relative to its center.
 
      voyager 2 also shed light on the mystery of neptune's rings.
 observations from earth indicated that there were arcs of
 material in orbit around the giant planet. it was not clear how
 neptune could have arcs and how these could be kept from
 spreading out into even, unclumped rings. voyager 2 detected
 these arcs, but they were, in fact, part of thin, complete rings.
 a number of small moons could explain the arcs, but such bodies
 were not spotted.
 
      astronomers had identified the neptunian moons triton in
 1846 and nereid in 1949. voyager 2 found six more. one of the new
 moons -- proteus -- is actually larger than nereid, but since
 proteus orbits close to neptune, it was lost in the planet's
 glare for observers on earth.
 
       triton circles neptune in a retrograde orbit in under six
 days. tidal forces on triton are causing it to spiral slowly
 towards the planet. in 10 to 100 million years (a short time in
 astronomical terms), the moon will be so close that neptunian
 gravity will tear it apart, forming a spectacular ring to
 accompany the planet's modest current rings.
 
      triton's landscape is as strange and unexpected as those of
 io and miranda. the moon has more rock than its counterparts at
 saturn and uranus. triton's mantle is probably composed of
 water-ice, but the moon's crust is a thin veneer of nitrogen and
 methane. the moon shows two dramatically different types of
 terrain: the so-called "cantaloupe" terrain and a receding ice
 cap. 
 
      dark streaks appear on the ice cap. these streaks are the
 fallout from geyser-like volcanic vents that shoot nitrogen gas
 and dark, fine-grained particles to heights of 2 to 8 kilometers
 (1 to 5 miles). triton's thin atmosphere, only 1/70,000th as
 thick as earth's, has winds that carry the dark particles and
 deposit them as streaks on the ice cap -- the coldest surface yet
 found in the solar system (-235 degrees celsius, -391 degrees
 fahrenheit). triton might be more like pluto than any other
 object spacecraft have so far visited.
      
 
 pluto
 
      pluto is the most distant of the planets, yet the
 eccentricity of its orbit periodically carries it inside
 neptune's orbit, where it has been since 1979 and where it will
 remain until march 1999. pluto's orbit is also highly inclined --
 tilted 17 degrees to the orbital plane of the other planets.
 
      discovered in 1930, pluto appears to be little more than a
 celestial snowball. the planet's diameter is calculated to be
 approximately 2,300 kilometers (1,430 miles), only two-thirds the
 size of our moon. ground-based observations indicate that pluto's
 surface is covered with methane ice and that there is a thin
 atmosphere that may freeze and fall to the surface as the planet
 moves away from the sun. observations also show that pluto's spin
 axis is tipped by 122 degrees. 
 
      the planet has one known satellite, charon, discovered in
 1978. charon's surface composition is different from pluto's: the
 moon appears to be covered with water-ice rather than methane
 ice. its orbit is gravitationally locked with pluto, so both
 bodies always keep the same hemisphere facing each other. pluto's
 and charon's rotational period and charon's period of revolution
 are all 6.4 earth days. 
 
      although no spacecraft have ever visited pluto, nasa is
 currently exploring the possibility of such a mission.
      
 
 comets
 
      the outermost members of the solar system occasionally pay a
 visit to the inner planets. as asteroids are the rocky and
 metallic remnants of the formation of the solar system, comets
 are the icy debris from that dim beginning and can survive only
 far from the sun. most comet nuclei reside in the oort cloud, a
 loose swarm of objects in a halo beyond the planets and reaching
 perhaps halfway to the nearest star.
 
      comet nuclei orbit in this frozen abyss until they are
 gravitationally perturbed into new orbits that carry them close
 to the sun. as a nucleus falls inside the orbits of the outer
 planets, the volatile elements of which it is made gradually
 warm; by the time the nucleus enters the region of the inner
 planets, these volatile elements are boiling. the nucleus itself
 is irregular and only a few miles across, and is made principally
 of water-ice with methane and ammonia -- materials very similar
 to those composing the moons of the giant planets.
 
      as these materials boil off of the nucleus, they form a coma
 or cloud-like "head" that can measure tens of thousands of
 kilometers across. the coma grows as the comet gets closer to the
 sun. the stream of charged particles coming from the sun pushes
 on this cloud, blowing it back like a flag in the wind and giving
 rise to the comet's "tails." gases and ions are blown directly
 back from the nucleus, but dust particles are pushed more slowly.
 as the nucleus continues in its orbit, the dust particles are
 left behind in a curved arc.
 
      both the gas and dust tails point away from the sun; in
 effect, the comet chases its tails as it recedes from the sun.
 the tails can reach 150 million kilometers (93 million miles) in
 length, but the total amount of material contained in this
 dramatic display would fit in an ordinary suitcase. comets --
 from the latin cometa, meaning "long-haired" -- are essentially
 dramatic light shows.
 
      some comets pass through the solar system only once, but
 others have their orbits gravitationally modified by a close
 encounter with one of the giant outer planets. these latter
 visitors can enter closed elliptical orbits and repeatedly return
 to the inner solar system.
 
      halley's comet is the most famous example of a relatively
 short period comet, returning on an average of once every 76
 years and orbiting from beyond neptune to within venus' orbit.
 confirmed sightings of the comet go back to 240 b.c. this regular
 visitor to our solar system is named for sir edmond halley,
 because he plotted the comet's orbit and predicted its return,
 based on earlier sightings and newtonian laws of motion. his name
 became part of astronomical lore when, in 1759, the comet
 returned on schedule. unfortunately, sir edmond did not live to
 see it.
 
      a comet can be very prominent in the sky if it passes
 comparatively close to earth. unfortunately, on its most recent
 appearance, halley's comet passed no closer than 62.4 million
 kilometers (38.8 million miles) from our world. the comet was
 visible to the naked eye, especially for viewers in the southern
 hemisphere, but it was not spectacular. comets have been so
 bright, on rare occasions, that they were visible during daytime.
 historically, comet sightings have been interpreted as bad omens
 and have been artistically rendered as daggers in the sky.
 
      the comet rendezvous/asteroid flyby (craf) spacecraft will
 become the first traveler to fly close to a comet nucleus and
 remain in proximity to it as they both approach the sun. craf
 will observe the nucleus as it becomes active in the growing
 sunlight and begins to have its lighter elements boil off and
 form a coma and tails. several spacecraft have flown by comets at
 high speed; the first was nasa's international cometary explorer
 in 1985. an armada of five spacecraft (two japanese, two soviet
 and the giotto spacecraft from the european space agency) flew by
 halley's comet in 1986.
      
 
 conclusion
 
      despite their efforts to peer across the vast distances of
 space through an obscuring atmosphere, scientists of the past had
 only one body they could study closely -- earth. but since 1959,
 spaceflight through the solar system has lifted the veil on our
 neighbors in space. 
 
      we have learned more about our solar system and its members
 than anyone had in the previous thousands of years. our automated
 spacecraft have traveled to the moon and to all the planets
 beyond our world except pluto; they have observed moons as large
 as small planets, flown by comets and sampled the solar
 environment. astronomy books now include detailed pictures of
 bodies that were only smudges in the largest telescopes for
 generations. we are lucky to be alive now to see these strange
 and beautiful places and objects.
 
      the knowledge gained from our journeys through the solar
 system has redefined traditional earth sciences like geology and
 meteorology and spawned an entirely new discipline called
 comparative planetology. by studying the geology of planets,
 moons, asteroids and comets, and comparing differences and
 similarities, we are learning more about the origin and history
 of these bodies and the solar system as a whole.
 
      we are also gaining insight into earth's complex weather
 systems. by seeing how weather is shaped on other worlds and by
 investigating the sun's activity and its influence throughout the
 solar system, we can better understand climatic conditions and
 processes on earth.
 
      we will continue to learn and benefit as our automated
 spacecraft explore our neighborhood in space. one current mission
 is mapping venus; others are flying between worlds and will reach
 the sun and jupiter after complex trajectory adjustments. future
 missions are planned for mars, saturn, a comet and the asteroid
 belt.
 
      we can also look forward to the time when humans will once
 again set foot on an alien world. although astronauts have not
 been back to the moon since december 1972, plans are being
 formulated for our return to the lunar landscape and for the
 human exploration of mars and even the establishment of martian
 outposts. one day, taking a holiday may mean spending a week at a
 lunar base or a martian colony!
 
 - end -
      
 