
 in article <jpg.93apr27135219@holly.bnr.co.uk> jpg@bnr.co.uk (jonathan p. gibbons) writes:
 >i would appreciate any thoughts on what makes a planet habitable for humans.
 >i am making asumptions that life and a similar atmosphere evolve given a range
 >of physical aspects of the planet.  the question is what physical aspects
 >simply disallow earth like conditions.
 >
 >eg temperature range of 280k to 315k (where temp is purely dependant on dist
 >     from the sun and the suns temperature..)
 >   atmospheric presure ? - i know nothing of human tolerance
 >   planetary mass ? - again gravity at surface is important, how much
 >     can human bodies take day after day.  also how does the mass effect
 >     atmosphere.  i thinking of planets between .3 and 3 times mass of the
 >     earth.  i suppose density should be important as well.
 >
 >climate etc does not concern me, nor does axial tilt etc etc.  just the above
 >three factors and how they relate to one another.
 >
 >jonathan
 
 jonathan, interesting questions.  some wonder whether or not the moon could
 have ever supported an atmosphere.  i'd be interested in knowing what
 our geology/environmental sciences friends think.
 
 as for human tolerances, the best example of human endurance in terms
 of altitude (i.e. low atmospheric pressure and lower oxygen partial pressure)
 is in my opinion to the scaling of mt. everest without oxygen assistance.
 this was accomplished by a team of mountaineers who trained at high
 altitudes for quite awhile (i think a few months) and then were flown by
 helicopter from that training altitude to the equivalent altitude on
 mount everest, where they began the ascent of our planet's highest peak
 without oxygen tanks.  this is quite a feat of physiological endurance, because
 if you or i tried to go to 20,000 feet and exert ourselves, we would probably
 pass out, get altitude sick, and could even die from cerebral edema. so
 this is the limit of low pressure.  high pressure situations would be
 limited by the duration of time which it takes to slowly acclimate to a higher
 pressure.  skin divers would know alot about high pressure situations and
 could tell you about how they safely make deep dives without getting the
 bends.  some military experiments have put people under several atmospheres of
 pressure (not sure what the high limit was because the papers aren't in
 front of me).  usually at a certain point, the nitrogen in the air becomes
 toxic to the body and you start acting idiotic.  divers call this nitrogen
 narcosis.  those afflicted can do very dangerous and irrational things, like
 taking off a diving mask and oxygen tank in order to talk to fish at 100 feet
 under water.  (hope any diving folk can elaborate on this matter, as i
 am not a diving expert).
 
 mars cannot support human life without pressurization because the atmosphere
 is too thin (1/100 th  our earth's atmospheric density).  in addition,
 the mars atmosphere is mostly carbon dioxide.  basically, you would need a 
 pressure suit there, or you'd die from the low pressure.  interesting huh?
 
 ken
 khayash@hsc.usc.edu
 