
 people who criticize "big government" and its projects rarely seem to
 have a consistent view of the role of government in science and
 technology.  basically, the u.s. government has gotten into the role of
 supporting research which private industry finds too expensive or too
 long-term.  
 
 (historically, this role for the u.s. gov't was forced upon it because
 of socialism in other countries.  in order for u.s.  industries to
 compete with government-subsidized foreign competitors, the u.s. gov't
 has taken on the role of subisizing big-ticket or long-lead r&d.)
 
 as a republican, i abhor the necessity for our government to involve
 itself in technology this way.  i believe that market forces should
 drive technology, and the world would be a better place for it.  but
 the whole world would have to implement this concept simultaneously, or
 some countries would have subsidized r&d, while others would not.  so
 the u.s. must subsidize because everybody else does.  (this sounds a
 lot like the farm subsidies arguments behind our gatt negotiations,
 doesn't it?)
 
 but this role of government subsidies is antithetical to
 cost-effectiveness.  the general idea is to spend money on new
 technology, and thereby maintain and promote our technological culture,
 despite the forces in the business world (like the dreaded quarterly
 earnings report) which erode the ability of u.s. industry to invest in
 new technology.  and since our goal is to spend money, it makes little
 sense to try to save money.
 
 of course, we could always spend our money more wisely, but everybody
 disagrees about that the wisdom should be.  
 
 it's interesting to note that some of our best tools for cost control
 available in industry today were derived from government projects.
 gantt charts, cp/m, and most of the modern scheduling software comes
 from dod projects and their contractors.  the construction industry
 has taken these tools to the core of their businesses; every large
 construction project now uses these tools.  
 
 -- ken jenks, nasa/jsc/gm2, space shuttle program office
       kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov  (713) 483-4368
 
      "a scientist can discover a new star, but he cannot make one.
       he would have to ask an engineer to do that."
         -- gordon l. glegg, american engineer, 1969
 