
 : in article <1993apr29.121501@is.morgan.com>, jlieb@is.morgan.com (jerry liebelson) writes...
 : > i want to know what weightlessness actually feels like. for example, is
 : >there a constant sensation of falling? 
 
 ron baalke (baalke@kelvin.jpl.nasa.gov) replied:
 : yes, weightlessness does feel like falling.  it may feel strange at first,
 : but the body does adjust.  the feeling is not too different from that
 : of sky diving.
 
 i'm no astronaut, but i've flown in the kc-135 several times.  i'll
 tell you about my first flight.
 
 at the on-set of weightlessness, my shoulders lifted and my spine
 straightened.  i felt a momentary panic, and my hands tried to grab
 onto something (like the strap keeping me firmly against the floor)
 to prevent me from falling; i remember conciously over-ruling my
 involuntary motions.  my ears felt (not heard) a rush and i could
 feel fluid moving in my head (like when you get up from bed while
 you have a cold).
 
 at that point, i ceased to concentrate on my physiological response,
 since i had some science to do.  i was busy keeping my experiment
 going and keeping track of all the parts during the "return" of
 gravity and subsequent 1.8-g pull-out, so i didn't really pay
 attention to physiology at that time.
 
 after about 5 parabolas, i discovered that i was performing one
 of the tricks i've discovered to keep myself from getting motion
 sickness; i was keeping my head very still and moving very slowly
 -- all except my hands and arms, which needed to be in rapid,
 concious motion for my experiment.  during the pull-out to
 parabola 5, my queasiness finally started to get to me, and i
 had to use one of those air-sickness bags.  i was basically
 useless for the rest of that flight, so i went to the seats in
 the back of the plane while my partner (whom i drafted for just
 this purpose) kept working on the experiment while i was ill.
 (he was a vetran vomit comet rider, one of those anomalous
 people who don't get sick on the thing.)
 
 i didn't think of it as a "constant sensation of falling" so
 much as like swimming in air.  it's very close to the sensations
 i feel when i'm scuba diving and i turn my head down and fins up.
 
 jerry:
 : >and what is the motion sickness
 : >that some astronauts occasionally experience? 
 
 ron:
 : it is the body's reaction to a strange environment.  it appears to be
 : induced partly to physical discomfort and part to mental distress.
 : some people are more prone to it than others, like some people are more
 : prone to get sick on a roller coaster ride than others.  the mental
 : part is usually induced by a lack of clear indication of which way is
 : up or down, ie: the shuttle is normally oriented with its cargo bay
 : pointed towards earth, so the earth (or ground) is "above" the head of
 : the astronauts.  about 50% of the astronauts experience some form of
 : motion sickness, and nasa has done numerous tests in space to try to
 : see how to keep the number of occurances down.
 
 i'm a volunteer in jsc's space biomedical laboratory where they do,
 among other things, some of the tests ron mentions.  i was in one
 called the pre-flight adaptation trainer, which consisted of a chair on
 a several-degree-of-freedom motion base with moving geometric visual
 aids.  the goal was to measure the victim's^h^h^h^h^h^h^h^h subject's
 responses and subjective physiological descriptions and see if repeated
 exposure to this environment could reduce future motion sickness
 symptoms.
 
 jerry --
 
 i don't know of any former or active-duty astronauts who personally
 read this group.  i know that bruce mccandless's office had been
 waiting anxiously for the space station redesign option i posted
 last week, but i don't think bruce reads the group himself.
 
 -- ken jenks, nasa/jsc/gm2, space shuttle program office
       kjenks@gothamcity.jsc.nasa.gov  (713) 483-4368
 
      "the man who makes no mistakes does not usually make
       anything."
         -- edward john phelps, american diplomat/lawyer (1825-1895)
 