
 in <1993may1.051312.1@aurora.alaska.edu> nsmca@aurora.alaska.edu writes:
 
 > getting wierd again?
 > 
 > okay what about launching one probe with multiple parts.. kind of liek the old
 > mirv principle of old cold war days. 
 > basically what i mean is design a mother ship that has piggy backed probes for
 > different missions,namely different planets. each probe would be tied in with
 > the mother ship (or earth as the case may be).. this is good when and if we go
 > for mars (the mars mission can act as either mother ship or relay point for the
 > probes.
 
 i can't see the need for a single (big? expensive? heavy?) "mothership" except
 for voyager style flyby missions. a few years ago, i did some calculations on a
 "grand tour" space probe launched by a saturn v in 1975-76. at the time,i felt 
 that
 the idea of a big "mother ship" had some merit - the voyagers had to be rather
 small, lightweight craft due to the limitations imposed by using weak titan
 iii/centaur launchers. the concept i examined (and michael's?) had a lot in
 common with the british interplanetary society's daedalus project for sending a
 probe to barnard's star - i.e. a large "bus" spacecraft carrying several
 smaller probes to be dispatched when the ship arrives at its destination.
 the saturn v supposedly would have been able to launch a 10-ton payload towards
 jupiter and beyond. the "bus" could have included far more powerful
 cameras/telescopes/scientific equipment and a heavier/more powerful power
 source than the voyagers as there would be no limitations on weight anymore.
 extremely important as the voyagers had to perform most of their measurements
 within a couple of weeks before and after planetary encounter, and usually at a
 relatively great distance.
 ---
 the smaller probes carried aboard might have been based on the "real" voyagers,
 and an even smaller version like the one scheduled for launch towards pluto in
 the early 21st century, and would have been released at various points during
 the mission. the advantages are obvious: the bus would have carried out the
 same basic jupiter-saturn-uranus-neptune mission than voyager 2 did, but in
 addition two "sub-probes" could have been relased at saturn, examining
 that planet's south polar regions before moving on to pluto. this would have
 enabled nasa to map both hemispheres of pluto/charon by 1986...and several
 other probes could have examined parts of the jupiter/saturn/uranus/neptune
 systems that weren't examined in great detail by the voyagers due to
 trajectory-related factors. a small "swarm" of camera-equipped miniature space
 probes released a month before encounter would have been too costly for a 
 small voyager-type mission but entirely feasible if launched from a heavy, 
 well-equipped spacecraft. and would we have learned a lot more about the outer
 planets! the reason why the grand tour was cancelled was lack of money, of
 course. 
 
 marcu$
    
 > ==
 > michael adams, nsmca@acad3.alaska.edu -- i'm not high, just jacked
 > 
 