
 stange@meena.cc.uregina.ca writes:
 
 >phil, your point is well taken.  it is still a sad idea.
 
 i'm worried by the concern about it though, for a number of reasons
 that have nothing to do with space advertising (which for a number of
 reasons is probably doomed to fail on financial grounds).
 
 (and i've been reading and (and writing) this thread since way
 back when it was only on sci.space).
 
 for starters, i don't think the piece of light-pollution apparatus
 would be as bright as the full moon. _that_ seems to me to be a bit
 of propaganda on the part of opponents, or wishful thinking on the
 part of proponents.
 
 second, this charge of ruining the night sky permanently has been
 levelled against other projects, that either 1) don't increace light
 pollution significantly, or 2) increace light pollution only over the
 target area.
 
 you may or may not recognize #1 as being solar power sattelites.
 i think it was josh hopkins who actually did the math, showing that
 sps's weren't that bright after all, ending some two months of frenzied
 opposition on the part of dark-sky activists and various other types.
 
 #2 is mainly projects like the orbiting mirror the cis tested
 recently.  while slightly more worrisome, i'd like to point out that
 any significant scattering of light outside the target area for one of
 these mirrors would be wasted as far as the project would be
 concerned, and something any project like that would work against
 anyway. and given some of the likely targets, i don't think there's
 going to be much of an outcry from the inhabitants. there is too much
 dark sky in the northern cis during the winter, and i doubt you'll find
 many activists in murmansk demanding the "natural" sky back. if anything,
 he'll probably be inside, stripped buck naked in front of the uv lamp,
 making sure he'll get enough vitamin d for the "day."
 
 the mirror experiments aren't something they're doing for crass
 advertising. they think that if they can build one, it'll be one of
 those things people in the affected areas will think they couldn't
 have lived without before. and i doubt anyone's going to really be
 able to convince them to stop.
 
 
 --
 phil fraering         |"number one good faith! you convert,
 pgf@srl02.cacs.usl.edu|you not tortured by demons!" - anon. mahen missionary
 
 
 