Venue: Hampden Park, Glasgow Date: Sunday, 19 April Kick-off: 12:15 BST
Coverage: Live commentary on BBC Radio Scotland. Live text &amp; radio coverage on the BBC Sport website
 Manager Ronny Deila credits camaraderie with an important role as Celtic laugh together in pursuit of treble success. 
 On course for a fourth successive title and with the League Cup already secured, a Scottish Cup semi-final with Inverness CT is up next on Sunday. 
 &quot;One of the most important things needed to get better is to laugh a lot and enjoy life,&quot; said Deila. 
 &quot;There has been a very good atmosphere here for a long, long time and it is getting better and better.&quot; 
 Deila is determined to land a domestic clean sweep in his first season in charge, which would emulate Martin O'Neill's achievement in 2001. 
 And he stressed that there is a time and place for jokes and high spirits. 
 &quot;People loosen up more when we know each other better and we are having a lot of fun here,&quot; the Norwegian added. 
 &quot;But we know the moments to be very dedicated and to be focused when we train.&quot; 
 Deila will be without suspended striker Anthony Stokes and cup-tied midfield duo Stuart Armstrong and Gary Mackay-Steven at Hampden. 
 And he is expecting a tough game following last Saturday's scrappy 1-1 league draw in the Highlands. 
 &quot;Inverness are a good team,&quot; he added. &quot;They are well organised and they have a good spirit. 
 &quot;Both teams want to play football so I think it will be a better match to watch than it was last time because I don't think there were more than four chances in 90 minutes. 
 &quot;Hopefully there will be some more passing, better passing and more chances.&quot; 
 Leigh Griffiths scored an early goal against Caley Thistle but was left on the bench against Kilmarnock at Celtic Park in midweek, only to come on and net a second-half hat-trick. 
 Deila praised the striker for his improvement this season but insists no one at the club can afford to relax in the search of silverware. 
 &quot;I see a lot of potential in all of the players but the difference between a good and not so good player is how good they are at learning and taking in new knowledge,&quot; he said. 
 &quot;Leigh wanted to make a change and he has got his reward. I think you can see a lot of players have done the same. 
 &quot;Virgil van Dijk is taking steps and Jason Denayer, Emilio Izaguirre is getting better. A lot of the players are into understanding and learning. 
 &quot;What you did last night is not good enough tomorrow. You have to always be alert and learn new things and learn from experiences. 
 &quot;And if you are in that way of thinking, you will always be ahead of your opponent.&quot; 
