THE  was crowned Newspaper of the Year in a triumphant night at the Scottish Press Awards.
We picked up the top honour after collecting a string of other accolades for our stellar news and sport coverage.
David Clegg was named Political Journalist of the Year after leading the way in last year’s biggest story – the independence referendum.
At Record Sport, Keith Jackson’s top notch exclusives saw him lauded as Sports News Writer of the Year for the third year running.
 

His colleague Gary Ralston cemented the Record’s domination in the category by taking the runner-up spot.
Our editor Murray Foote picked up the industry’s highest prize for best newspaper during the bash in Glasgow on Thursday.
Earlier Murray was presented with his own award for Scoop of the Year for “The Vow” – our referendum story which made headlines worldwide and is now ingrained in Scottish political history.
He negotiated a pledge from David Cameron, Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg to give more powers to Scotland in the event of a “No” vote which proved a pivotal moment in the campaign.
And The Vow also secured Front Page of the Year for the shockwave it delivered, combined with its eye-catching parchment-style created by designer Kevin Connor.

No other paper can claim to have had a bigger impact on Scotland last year than the Record, and our even-handed referendum coverage was hailed as a major factor behind our win.
Austin Lafferty, chairman of the judging panel, praised our handling of the referendum. He described it as “a fine example of journalistic imagination, skill, and political nous.”
David Clegg clinched the political award for his superb series of stories which drove the news agenda, including The Vow, a story which has entered the political lexicon and played an undeniable role in the setting up of the Smith Commission.
And last February David told how First Minister Alex Salmond was scrapping the hated bedroom tax in Scotland following the Record’s campaign to abolish it.
 

Keith Jackson proved again he is Scotland’s foremost sports writer as he collected his deserved award.
He has spearheaded reports on the Rangers crisis for years and delivered a flurry of exclusives on the troubled club to secure his latest title, including revealing Newcastle owner Mike Ashley’s secret &pound;1 deal for naming rights to its stadium.
In a picture exclusive, Keith also showed how Rangers director Sandy Easdale and a criminal wanted by Interpol tried to negotiate an Ibrox bailout.
Gary Ralston showed the strength in depth in our sports department as runner-up behind Keith.
He revealed how St Mirren starlet Kieran Doran was launching a legal bid over a contract that netted him &pound;1 a week and was never even paid.
And last May he uncovered another financial scandal in football when he told how Rangers chief executive Graham Wallace could earn a 100 per cent bonus on top of his &pound;315,000 pay.
Crime reporter Paul O’Hare was nominated at the awards as News Reporter of the Year for a succession of searing stories.
He produced the definitive coverage of the 1986 Elaine Doyle murder case during John Docherty’s trial last year, with an eight-page pullout telling the horrific tale from start to finish.
And Paul secured a powerful and moving interview with the mother of torture murder victim Lynda Spence.
John Ferguson was also nominated in that category for stories including his expose of the shocking conditions at the Bellgrove Hotel homeless hostel.

His terrifying report on cybercrime showed how a computer hacker could target a family home and steal everything from mortgage details to a child’s social media account in just 27 seconds.
Our reporters were nominated for Journalist Team of the Year for coverage of December’s horrific bin lorry tragedy in Glasgow.
Faced with relaying the drama and respecting the victims, our team struck that balance and delivered the best coverage on this national tragedy.
Reporter Sarah Vesty was nominated as Young Journalist of the Year for a succession of brilliant exclusives.
In September she revealed the shocking story of a suicidal mother who was failed by NHS 24. Another story exposed the appalling behaviour of an American “frat house” at Edinburgh University who laughed about going on a “raping trip”.
Reporter Jennifer Hyland was lauded for her top interview skills. She was shortlisted as Interviewer of the Year for harrowing sit-downs with April Moore, whose son murdered his own brother, and rape victim Tracy Steele.
Our sister paper in the Media Scotland stable, the Kilmarnock Standard, was named runner-up in the Weekly Newspaper of the Year category.
And the Record’s John Dingwall was nominated as Arts/Entertainment Journalist of the Year after revolutionising our coverage of T In The Park and establishing the Live at Dingwall’s series of concerts in his own living room.
That unique venture also drew a nomination for Innovation of the Year through the multi-camera HD concerts and behind-the-scenes interviews with the likes of Simple Minds, The Vamps and Union J.
 

Katrina Tweedie, Andrew Ferguson and Fraser Glen collected the latter award for Scotland Now, our digital platform launched last May to reach people around the world with an interest in Scots culture.
No other paper did more to get rid of the appalling bedroom tax than the Record and our support for society’s most vulnerable saw us nominated for Campaign of the Year.
In the year of the nation’s referendum, and Glasgow witnessing the best and worst with the Commonwealth Games and the bin lorry disaster, the Record was recognised for truly leading the pack.
