POLICE hunting for evidence in the Karen Buckley investigation pulled a knife from a canal yesterday.
The probe into the student nurse’s death continued across several sites in the Glasgow area after police formally arrested 21-year-old Alex Pacteau, who is expected to appear in court today.
Remains found on High Craigton Farm north of the city on Wednesday night were confirmed as Karen’s four days after she vanished from the Sanctuary nightclub in Partick.
Pacteau’s home on Dorchester Avenue, Kelvinside, remained taped off yesterday as officers carried out door-to-door inquiries in the street.
 

 
Police sealed off a footpath beside a city canal at 1.15pm and a diver retrieved a blade from the water soon after.
Meanwhile, police showed no sign of scaling down a massive search for evidence at the farm where Irish student Karen’s body was found.
The entrance from the main road remained closed to the public throughout the day with vehicles being signed in and out.
A marked police car, thought to be carrying sniffer dogs, arrived at the farm early in the day and an area directly next to the farm was cordoned off.

Police seemed to be concentrating their investigation on a small wooded area but at around 1pm, they extended the cordon to include parts of the neighbouring field. A police helicopter constantly flew overhead and a neighbour said officers had been carrying out inquires in the area and had spoken to several of them.
He added: “Police were going round everyone’s doors asking if we had seen or heard anything unusual over the past few days.
“At this point, no one really knows much about what is happening.”

Floral tributes from people touched by the tragedy were left at the entrance to the site near Milngavie.
One offered an apology that Karen’s death happened in a city she’d only called home since January. It read: “I honestly don’t understand what’s wrong with this world. I’m so sorry this happened to you in Glasgow.
“Rest in peace beautiful angel.”
Another, clearly written by a child, said: “RIP Karen, we will always be thinking of you.”
A third card placed at the scene by a woman said simply: “The angel behind the wall.”
Karen was reported missing by friends after leaving the Sanctuary nightclub in the early hours of Sunday, telling friends she was going to the toilet. Her flatmates in Hill Street, Garnethill, reported her missing at 5am, sparking the huge search that ended in heartbreak.

