A SCOTS golfer has defied odds of more than 183trillion-to-one to rack up six holes-in-one in a year on five different golf courses.
Drew Lumsden had played golf for decades without ever managing the feat, but has now sunk six tee shots in the past 12 months.
The 58-year-old’s amazing exploits have earned him several luxury watches as prizes.
But he joked the aces have failed to improve his scores because he was too excited to play afterwards.
Drew, from the home of golf St Andrews, has completed his spectacular sequence on six different holes across two continents.
 

He is a member of both St Andrews and St Andrews Thistle Golf Clubs and notched up his first hole-in-one on the Eden course in his home town. But Drew didn’t even realise he had aced the par three fifth hole until his playing partner suggested he look in the cup for his ball.
“I hit an eight iron on to the green,” he said. “I was just slightly right of the flag, and I thought it might have gone through the green.
 
“Getting a hole-in-one is a mixture of emotions – a bit like playing the Old Course for the first time. The adrenalin was pumping and I think it took about four holes to settle down afterwards.”
Drew followed up his first ace, which he achieved in May last year, with a second on the neighbouring Jubilee Course’s 192-yard ninth hole in September.
Then, on December 4, he launched a drive 253 yards straight into the fourth hole, again on the Jubilee Course, and incredibly took his form to Florida a fortnight later at the Disney Magnolia course.

Big-hitter Drew fired a 300-yarder into the cup on the Strathtyrum Course in his hometown on March 29. And a few days later he took the clubs to the Cullen Golf Club in Moray and holed his tee shot on 13th for his sixth ace.
Drew, who owns a landscape gardening firm, has been awarded three designer watches which are handed out to players who manage the feat in club competitions.
He said: “As a golfer you know what you’ve got to do, but you can’t afford to think about it too much. I would say that you have to be aggressive – you have to go at the flag.”
Statisticians estimate the chances of the average amateur golfer getting a single hole-in-one are between 3500-1 and 12,000-1.
 Try our quick sports quiz below: 

