A man will appear in court today in connection with the death of Irish student Karen Buckley.
A major police search was launched this week when the 24-year-old vanished after a night out in Glasgow at the weekend.
Her body was found at High Craigton Farm on the north-western outskirts of the city following a four-day search.
A vigil will be held in George Square in Glasgow city centre at 5pm this evening to show support for the family and friends of the student, who was from Cork in the Irish Republic.

People are being encouraged to bring flowers and candles to the event, which is being organised by former Scottish Socialist politician Rosie Kane.
Writing on Facebook she said: &quot;If folk can come to George Square tomorrow at 5pm we could embrace each other in Karen's honour and hope that those hurt by loss and fear and trauma will know we care.&quot;
A 21-year-old man was arrested in connection with Ms Buckley's death yesterday. He will make a brief appearance in a private hearing at Glasgow Sheriff Court today.

Friends of Ms Buckley raised the alarm on Sunday morning when she failed to return from a night out at The Sanctuary in the west end of Glasgow.
The search led police to Dawsholm Park, where Ms Buckley's handbag was found on Tuesday, and a property in the city's Dorchester Avenue, before the farm where the discovery was made.
Ms Buckley moved to Scotland in February and was a first-year occupational therapy student at Glasgow Caledonian University.
Her family, who travelled to Scotland on Tuesday, have said they are &quot;absolutely heartbroken&quot;.
Her father John Buckley, 62, said she was an outgoing girl who &quot;thoroughly enjoyed life&quot;.

He released a statement through Police Scotland which read: &quot;Marian and I, together with our sons Brendan, Kieran, and Damian are absolutely heartbroken.
&quot;Karen was our only daughter, cherished by her family and loved by her friends.
&quot;She was an outgoing girl who travelled the world, where she met lots of people and thoroughly enjoyed her life.
&quot;We will miss her terribly.&quot;
More than &pound;50,000 has been raised to support the Buckley family in an online drive organised by her former classmates at Limerick University.
The 24-hour appeal closed last night after reaching &pound;50,001 - ten times the initial target of &pound;5,000.
The Go Fund Me page was set up to cover the family's travel and expenses while in Scotland and to support the upkeep of their farm in Cork.
