THE world's biggest festival of piping has been launched from an open top tourist bus.This summer, 50,000 music fans, families and tourists will head to Glasgow for the World Pipe Band Championships and the Piping Live! festival.The week long celebration will involved more than 200 events taking place in venues across the city from August 10 to 16.Piping Live! will showcase not only the best pipers and pipe bands from across the globe but also celebrate multi-instrument traditional musicians and bandsRoddy MacLeod, festival director of Piping Live! said: &quot;It's year 12 of Piping Live! and the festival continues to grow.&quot;We annually attract tens of thousands of people to the city and last year Piping Live! had an economic impact of almost &pound;2 million to the city - so you could say we're the summers main attraction.&quot;The festival programme for 2015 is hugely diverse. Whether you are looking for a family day out, are a seasoned piping or traditional music fan, Piping Live! has something for you.&quot;The World Pipe Band Championships will return to Glasgow Green on August 14 and 15, where the best pipers and drummers from across the world will congregate. The Worlds as they are known have been associated with Glasgow for more than 60 years and will see around 220 bands compete across the two days.Ian Embelton, chief executive of the Royal Scottish Pipe Band Association, said: &quot;The World Pipe Band Championships have always been a terrific mix of passionate competition and family fun, and this year looks to be better than ever. It's a unique event and a terrific platform to celebrate the vast pipe band talent from across the world. &quot;Scott Taylor, Chief Executive of Glasgow City Marketing Bureau, said: &quot;Glasgow is home to an enviable, diverse and ever-growing programme of annual major events and festivals. Piping Live! and the World Pipe Band Championships are firmly at the heart of Glasgow's cultural calendar every August, offering thousands of piping fans from across the UK and overseas the chance to experience a spectacular week of superb traditional Scottish music and culture. Moreover, both events generate significant economic benefit for the city and their continuing popularity reinforces Glasgow's reputation for successfully hosting major international events.&quot;