 I remember being at Placebo concerts, crowd-surfing at Greenday’s Warning tour and standing in line for hours just to get good tickets for idlewild and Linkin Park. 
I remember losing my voice at festivals and managing to get away with jeans, a tight-fitting T-shirt and a Mars bar all weekend whilst my mates lost the location of our tent, phones, wallets and car keys.
I remember it all really very well. It was bloody awful.
This week I was taken to a Villagers gig; a young, Irish indie-folk band a long way from the metal/rock genre of my past.
The music ensemble consisted of guitars, a trumpet, a double bass, a harp and a lamp that looked as though it had been nicked from their gran’s flat in Malahide.
Their music was soothing: beautiful harmonies complimented by warm smiles and a genuine look of enjoyment on their faces as they strummed along to a melody that carried across some incredibly strong and brave messages to it’s audience.
This was the sort of music I was afraid to put my hand up and claim affection for when I was younger. I just wasn’t cool in 2001.
The Villagers' merchandise stand sold tea towels, LP’s, organic tote bags and white cotton T-shirts. Their audience donned sensible shoes and brightly coloured macs. Hipsters with denim-on-denim outfits and saggy hats skirted the edges of the venue, occasionally shifting their thick-rimmed glasses and giving their beards the odd stroke.
The music reminds me of something that would fit perfectly into the backdrop of a Sally Hawkins film, with lashings of substantially wavy hair and long flowing skirts.
 If I had had the confidence at 16 to say to my friends, “Yes, I am wearing this thick woolen jumper with jeans and cowboy boots to the gig - and I’ll like it too!”, I reckon I would have experienced a far less stressful childhood. 
Teenagers will always be awkward, but it is certainly far easier to be awkward in something that does not necessarily show one’s body shape in quite so much detail.
I thought a lot about my younger experiences of music during this gig. It was actually quite nice dipping briefly into awkward and uncomfortable nostalgia.
As I watched the similarly ageing audience around me swaying to the music they would later be playing in their gardens as they cooked barbecue chicken and discussed politics and finance, I felt quite content with myself.
At this concert I didn’t have to drink. I didn’t have to show off to spotty teenagers who had memorized GQ magazine over the weekend. Most importantly, at the end of it I got to go home to bed and sleep.
Sometimes I miss being a teenager. This week I was truly grateful to be a grown-up.
