Is IT here yet? Oh, the excitement. The feverish anticipation. The sheer heart-thudding joy of a new arrival. But enough about the new branch of Krispy Kreme opening in Glasgow.
In other news, as I write this, we’re still waiting for the imminent addition to the royal gene pool.
Apparently, the delivery will be announced on social media first. Oh, the indignity. Kim Kardashian flashes her buttocks on Instagram. Lauren Goodger hits Twitter with endless pouting selfies.
If I was a royal, I’d muster up something a bit more lavish. A rocket shot into space trailing the name of the new babe in its wake. A TV newsflash with the details and an advert for the Middletons’ range of Party Pieces “It’s a Wean!” paper cups.
Or for maximum international exposure, they could write the details on the side of Princess Beatrice’s suitcase.
The national fervour has, however, been a lovely reminder of that special time, 13 years ago, when I was awaiting the arrival of babe No2, only 16 months after Low the Elder was born.
So, based on no medical credibility or expert endorsement whatsoever, I thought I’d pass on the lessons I learned in the early days at the University of the Second Child.
1. Prior to arrival, babies are given a warning that they will, on no account, sleep or eat at the same time as their older sibling.
2. They’re also given a different set of taste-buds, thereby ensuring you will spend the next decade making different meals for everyone in the house.
3. When child No2 arrives, the rulebooks can be cast aside, safe in the knowledge that if you keep them fed, changed and loved, you can’t go far wrong.
4. Yummy mummies are to be avoided. After a friend prised me out of my dressing gown three weeks after the birth of baby No1, I could just about keep up with the glam squad, given a week of preparation, dim lighting and a following wind. But with two children under two? I didn’t see my make-up bag for most of the early 90s.
5. Second time around, you’re more laid-back, realising that you don’t have to do a Paula Radcliffe across the room every time he makes a murmur.
6. That man you married? Love used to mean flowers and intimate moments. Now it means cleaning up projectile vomit and sterilising your breast pump.
7. Intimate moments? Let’s just say there’s a fairly high probability you won’t go on to have three children under three.
 8. Baby No1’s every movement will be charted and photographed. But sleep deprivation, exhaustion and chronic  lack of time rules this out for No2. One day in therapy, my second born will ponder why I don’t have a snap of him before school age. 
9. In times of stress, remind yourself that your little boys will be best friends for life. Overlook the examples set by the Gallaghers, the Giggs and the Milibands.
10. Prior to the baby being born, relax and put your feet up – it’s the last time you’ll sit down for a decade.
If it all gets overwhelming? Focus on life’s joys and miracles. Have you heard Krispy Kreme is coming to Glasgow?

