George Bowie and his anthems have pretty much become part of most clubbers Saturday night routine since the Clyde One DJ started offering shout outs around 20 years ago.Playing the songs loved by ravers young and old while giving them a 'menchy' on-air has created the perfect formula for the show to be one of the most popular in Scotland.&quot;GBX is very much part of Scottish culture. We are focusing on what people like in Glasgow and the West of Scotland. If GBX was UK-wide, it wouldn't work. In Scotland, we almost have our own scene, nobody had tapped into that before,&quot; explained George.He added: &quot;I think a lot of people were a bit too snobby about it. I am not trying to be cool. I just want to give people a good time.&quot;And that is what George does playing the rave anthems that filled dancefloors across the country for the last two decades.And it is that very music that George will be showcasing when he plays the outdoor stage at this year's Coloursfest at Braehead Arena and Waterfront on Saturday, June 6.He said: &quot;I more or less start every GBX set with Concreate Angel or Bits n Pieces. If I could pick a song I wish I had written it would be Concreate Angel.&quot;His love for the Gareth Emery remixed track which features the vocal talents of Christina Novelli perhaps has more to do with the new direction George is heading in with his music - as a producer.He said: &quot;I am getting my head into producing. I have done collaborations with other people but I've got my own studio now and I am doing lots of stuff myself. I am also working with (Scottish music producer) John McLaughlin and his guys.&quot;I would love to do a track with Christina Novelli so I will definitely be seeking her out. She would be perfect for my kind of thing.&quot;It's this relentless work ethic of djing, hosting radio shows and producing that caused George to feel unwell last year.He gave his fans a fright when he unexpectedly came off air to go to hospital to deal with a mystery illness.He said: &quot;I'm not a 100 per cent but I am much better than I was last year. It was such a big fright and it was all down to sleep deprivation.&quot;I was just doing too much. There was all these rumours about what happened to me like I had been stage diving, I had a heart attack or I had a stroke.&quot;But sleep deprivation caused my brain to shrink giving me crazy headaches. I have spent 20 years on four or five hours sleep a night doing gigs and breakfast shows.&quot;He added: &quot;When I went to hospital I was told to calm down a bit. I had to cut back on the gigs although I still do them.&quot;My Clyde bosses were brilliant. They helped me out so much with the show. I feel so much better now.&quot;With him feeling a lot better, the DJ can't wait to return to Coloursfest which is an event he has supported for over 10 years.He said: &quot;I have been doing Coloursfest from the start. It is a great festival because when I interview DJs they always tell me the Scottish crowd is the best. They have to be right as everyone is up for a party.&quot;That party atmosphere at Coloursfest helped make tracks like Sol Fiesta's Spanglish become a GBX favourite.George explained: &quot;My favourite Coloursfest memory was actually three years ago when Sparkos, who is on with me, just done the Spanglish track with his band Sol Fiesta.&quot;He said there is a lot of interest in this track Spanglish and I was like I don't know.&quot;I let him perform it at Coloursfest but told him I would put him on at the end.&quot;So we played Spanglish and now it has become one of my most requested songs on the GBX.&quot;The whole place just erupted and that song became a massive Scottish anthem, and I think it was all down to that performance at Coloursfest.&quot;The DJ admits he can't see himself completely giving up GBX, saying: &quot;I would never give it up. I will only give it up if people want me to. I just love this too much at the moment.&quot;I probably won't do radio forever but I would love to do GBX for as long as possible.&quot;And it doesn't look like his fans will be letting him give up the show either.&quot;I can't leave the house without someone shouting, &quot;Give me a shout out Georgie boy,&quot; I love that they are just having a laugh.&quot;I also get so many people asking for selfies and I just love it.&quot;Catch George Bowie peforming his GBX Anthems at Coloursfest on Saturday, June 6.Tickets start at &pound;44.50 plus booking fee.For more information visit here