GLASGOW has been told by the UK Supreme Court to clean the air of deadly pollution.
The unanimous ruling by five justices said the UK government needed to take “immediate action” on illegal levels of nitrogen dioxide in 16 cities, including Glasgow.
Legal limits had a 2010 deadline that Glasgow failed to meet and environmental campaigners hailed the landmark ruling to force the city to clean up.
A plan must be published by the end of 2015, said the court, and marks the end of a five-year legal battle after ClientEarth sued the government.
Council chiefs turned the issue back to the Scottish and UK governments “hampering” their ability to make improvements to streets such as Hope Street, regularly cited as the worst in Scotland for pollution.
Emilia Hanna, air pollution campaigner for Friends of the Earth Scotland said: “This is a huge victory in the fight for clean air. Today’s ruling marks the climax in a five-year legal battle where the UK and Scottish Governments have been shamefully caught trying to shirk their responsibilities. Their lack of action to tackle air pollution has cost thousands of lives. The Supreme Court’s verdict compels them to act immediately.
“The Scottish Government has been exposed by the highest court for breaking its air quality obligations in Glasgow, resulting in devastating harm to public health. Traffic-related air pollution can trigger asthma attacks, heart attacks, and strokes, and is a major cause of lung cancer. Children who endure high levels of air pollution will suffer the health consequences throughout the rest of their lives.
“This is a crucial ruling for Scotland because there is a new Low Emission Strategy out for consultation about how Scotland will meet its air quality obligations, but that plan is incomplete and unclear.
“The Scottish Government must heed the ruling and amend its air quality plans. To protect the public from air pollution, the Scottish Government must commit to keeping the most polluting vehicles out of city centres through introducing Low Emission Zones in major cities by 2018.”
Friends of the Earth said more than 2000 early deaths in Scotland each year are caused by air pollution, on top of lung and respiratory conditions and heart and cardiovascular problems.
Councillor Alistair Watson, executive member for sustainability at Glasgow City Council, said: “Glasgow has set a target of being one of the most sustainable cities in Europe over the next 20 years and we take our responsibility to monitor air quality very seriously. &quot;The issues around air quality are often directed towards local authorities, but the really big policy drivers are in the hands of central or devolved government and today’s ruling acknowledges this. Councils need to be given the appropriate powers and resources to address these issues.
“We know that the main source of air pollution produced within the city is from road traffic and one of the biggest culprits is buses. Therefore an action we would like to explore with the Scottish Government is re-regulating buses as without this our ability to make any real improvement is hampered.”
