A BRAVE student has revealed her anorexia hell after her weight plummeted to just 4st 11lb as she lived on three teaspoons of asparagus a day.
Troubled Lydia Davies was surviving on 13 calories a day and looked like a living skeleton.
After she was diagnosed with anorexia, she went on to develop bulimia and alcoholism.
The 23-year-old – who says she is now 99 per cent recovered – is sharing the ordeal she went through to try to encourage other sufferers to seek help.
Lydia said: “It was a horrible experience and I want to help others who may be feeling the same way.
“There were times when I thought I was going to die but I didn’t know what to do – I couldn’t ignore the voices telling me not to eat.
“I wanted to explain my deepest thoughts and how I overcame them.
“Eating disorders are so common now, yet so few people understand them.
“People need to see what is behind the sad eyes of someone suffering with these illnesses, rather than seeing only bones.”
Lydia, who lives in Glasgow, says her descent into anorexia started in her first year at university in 2010 after a one-night stand left her with a sexually transmitted infection.
She said: “I felt so self-conscious and disgusted in myself. It was only my second time with someone but afterwards I hated my body.
“I started trying to eat really healthily to counteract how I was feeling.
“Living in a student house didn’t help as I started to feel awkward eating in front of other people. When I went home mum pointed out that I was eating less but I didn’t give it much thought.
“At the end of first year, someone called me skinny and it stuck in my head.
“It made me feel good about myself. I went on a girls’ holiday to Zante and lived off Diet Coke.
“My friends noticed but I don’t think they knew what to do.”
 

Living away from home while she studied fashion in Newcastle, her eating disorder developed to the point where she would only have three teaspoons of asparagus or spinach a day.
Her intake of 13 calories a day – equivalent to a quarter of a jaffa cake or two walnuts – saw her drop to 4st 11lb and a size six in clothes.
Lydia added: “At weekends, I would eat nothing at all.
“I was so weak and starving, I was running on pure adrenaline. I remember lying on my bed and genuinely believing that if I fell asleep I wouldn’t wake up.
“I thought I was going to die. But still I would eat nothing.
“One night I went downstairs, my stomach was hurting and my heart didn’t feel right.
“I poured a centimetre of milk into a mug and then decided it was too much so I poured myself a millimetre instead before crawling back upstairs.”
After her frightened friends contacted her parents, Lydia started to get help.
 

She added: “I managed to hide my problems when I was away at university but once it became clear what was happening, they gave me all their support.
“It took five or six doctors for me to get diagnosed with anorexia, when to everyone else it was blatantly obvious.
“One even prescribed me appetite-increasing pills.”
But trying to deal with her anorexia led to other problems.
Lydia said: “I started drinking too, which only fuelled my appetite and purging. I would drink secretly in my room, maybe two bottles of wine a day.
“My parents found 40 bottles under my bed that I was hiding.”
As she battled back from the illness, she wrote a book. Raw gives a powerful insight into life with an eating disorder.
She said: “I hope that others suffering will relate to it and that other families watching their loved ones will be touched and understand more deeply how an eating disorder really feels.
“I hope people can learn from my life.”
She settled in Glasgow with boyfriend Pablo, 27, in September and loves living in the city.
But the legacy of the illness is still with her.
 

Lydia, who is originally from Surrey, said: “I would say that now I am about 99 per cent recovered.
“Everyone’s path to recovery will be different.
“There hasn’t been one big turning point. I’ve just slowly broken the cycle.
“My boyfriend Pablo has helped me to stop too. I don’t weigh myself but I’m a size 10 or 12.
“I know I’ve got long-term problems because of my anorexia. I have knee and hip problems – I can feel my bones are weak.
“Even still when I eat out I feel guilty. I still have the anorexic voices, I’ve just had to learn to ignore them.
“I really want to look healthy, feel healthy and be healthy.”
Her book has been well received. One reader, Claire, said: “This has given me a much greater understanding of what anorexics and their families go through – so hard for everybody.
“It is very well written and that takes talent and a lot of personal insight.”
Lydia plans to write more about her experiences and also wants to study beauty therapy.
She said: “Many friends and people I know have shown me great sympathy, followed my journey with interest and concern, and not judged at all.
“I feel so lucky for this and am truly amazed by people’s compassion.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

