COCAINE seized in Britain’s biggest ever drugs bust has a potential street value of half a billion pounds.
The high-purity haul – weighing more than two tons – was made a week ago when a tugboat was intercepted by the Royal Navy and Border Force off Aberdeen.
A source said: “Investigators will be literally tearing the ship apart, meticulously searching every nook and cranny.
“It’s the biggest drug seizure on Scottish territory and a coup for the agencies who worked on the surveillance operation.
“It’s two tons of high-grade cocaine, reckoned to be worth &pound;500million.”
It is five times more valuable than the previous biggest UK drugs seizure, which was also made in Scotland.
Sources said the “substantial” amount recovered in the North Sea raid could be mixed with other agents to make four tons of 50 per cent pure cocaine. Sold at &pound;120 a gram, that’s worth &pound;480million.
The 422-ton vessel under investigation – the Ukrainian-owned Hamal, registered in Tanzania – had set sail from the Canary Islands.
It’s unusual route sailing to northern Europe drew the attention of French marine authorities, who tipped off the National Crime Agency.
Investigators believe the cocaine, most probably sourced in South America, was loaded in the Canary Islands.
After a surveillance operation, the Border Force cutter Valiant and the Navy frigate HMS Somerset intercepted the suspect ship 100 miles off Aberdeen.
It is currently impounded in Aberdeen Harbour, where it is being stripped apart.
A spokesman for the NCA yesterday refused to confirm the exact size and value of the seizure. He said the search was ongoing but nearing completion.
He said: “There is obviously a substantial amount and it is still being reviewed with our Border Force colleagues.
“We are still totting up the final total so we wouldn’t really be able to comment on a speculative amount.”
A big chunk of the UK’s cocaine supply comes from Colombia or the border areas of neighbouring Venezuela and Ecuador.
The UK is one of Europe’s largest and most profitable markets for the drug. It is estimated 25 to 30 tons of cocaine is smuggled into the UK each year.

Most of the cocaine destined for Europe crosses the Atlantic by ship to Spain.
Bulk shipments arrive on container ships at hub ports, such as Antwerp and Rotterdam, before being smuggled into the UK.
Other packages are brought in by yachts, general cargo vessels or air couriers.
Crime groups based in key European countries, such as Spain and the Netherlands, help run the trade.
The UK’s previous biggest haul came on the A9 at Kingussie in 1991. Cops seized cocaine worth &pound;100million and two men were jailed for a total of 17 years.
● Nine Turkish nationals were remanded in custody in connection with alleged drug trafficking offences on Monday.
At Aberdeen Sheriff Court, they all faced the same charge of possession of a controlled drug under the Criminal Justice (International Co-operation) Act 1990.
The men, aged between 26 and 63, made no plea or declaration and are expected to appear in court again next week.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

