A POLICE investigation is underway into claims vulnerable children at a special needs school were physically abused.
The inquiry centres on Fraserburgh’s Westfield School in Aberdeenshire which caters for children as young as six weeks.
Parents of pupils were told about serious allegations in a letter from education chiefs.
Three staff members have been ordered to stay away from work while the inquiry is ongoing.
But it’s been made clear they have not been formally suspended.
The day care establishment supports pupils from pre-school to post 16 with a range of needs.
It caters for children with “severe and complex additional support needs” to moderate learning difficulties.
Specialist help for pupils on the autistic spectrum of needs is also provided.
And there’s also an “outreach” service to support pupils and staff within other local authority schools.
The mother of one Westfield pupil said: “I’m obviously very concerned because these children are very vulnerable.
“I don’t want to give my name in case it comes back on my child.”
Today a Police Scotland spokesman said: “We can confirm we are conducting an investigation following complaints received of allegations of physical abuse of children at Westfield School.
“We are working closely with colleagues from Aberdeenshire Council and the Care Inspectorate to safeguard the well-being of children at the school.”
More news from the north east
Aberdeenshire Council confirmed an investigation was under way and that three staff would not return to the school in the meantime.
A spokesman said: “We are co-operating fully with Police Scotland as they conduct their investigation into these serious allegations regarding Westfield School.
“This is understandably a worrying time for staff, pupils, parents and carers and we are providing support to the school while the investigation takes place.
“As this is a live investigation it would be inappropriate for us to comment any further at this time.”
The investigation teams are also co-ordinating with the Care Inspectorate, the national body responsible for monitoring care standards in Scotland.
Their spokesman said: “The Care Inspectorate is aware that Police Scotland are conducting an investigation following concerns about the health, safety and wellbeing of children at this service.
“The safety and wellbeing of children is always our first priority and we are working closely with Aberdeenshire Council and Police Scotland to ensure that the rights of children are respected and their needs met.
“Anyone with a concern about a care service can contact our helpline on 0345 600 9527.”
There are currently about 50 pupils attending Westfield School across all age groups.
In 2013 councillors earmarked more than &pound;2m to build a new family centre aimed at helping parents learn life skills on the Argyll Road site.

