A CULT leader convicted of molesting two members of his flock claims God told him to start his ministry during a stay at an old hotel in Fife.
Walter Masocha claims the “mouth of God” appeared to him on a spiritual break in Crail in 2006 or 2007.
The Zimbabwean-born preacher – convicted of two sex offences on Monday – claims the Lord spoke to him through a “cloud” that appeared in Room 12 at the Balcomie Links Hotel.
Self-styled prophet Masocha claims the vision instructed him to establish his church – Stirling-based Agape For All Nations Ministries International.
Agape, a registered charity, raked in more than &pound;3.3million from followers in the last four years.
But it was hit by scandal when it emerged that former member Farai Chirashi cut her five-year-old son Scott’s heart out after she was shunned by the church.
Masocha described his vision of God at the Fife hotel in an “exclusive interview” for a DVD produced by Agape.
He said: “I was praying in this place called the Balcomie Hotel, in room number 12.
“I was actually praying on my belly – and I woke up to have the most awesome experience.
“Every time that I think about this, I have this fear that comes over me. I fear God, I really fear God.
“I woke up in the afternoon to find the whole room was filled with a cloud. I could not see the furniture.
“I had had experiences where I encountered God in the past – seven times he had appeared to me.
“But this was something out of the ordinary.”
He continued: “All of a sudden, this cloud moved.
“Part of the cloud formed the shape of a human mouth and through this mouth the Lord God began to speak to me. He said, ‘I have heard your cry, I want you to lead my people. I want you to write this down.’
“I had to look around to find somewhere to write what he was going to say. I didn’t even expect him to say anything about starting a church.
“I was just amazed by this big cloud and this lip thing that it was coming through.
“I started writing at around 4.15pm on the first day. And he continued speaking to me, giving me breaks in between, until 12.30pm the next day.
“It turns out he had given me the vision of the church as I had wrote it down. It was just an amazing experience.”
 

A spokesman at Balcomie Links Hotel would not confirm whether any other guests had heard the voice of God in Room 12.
He said: “As far as I am concerned, it has nothing to do with the hotel.”
Agape now have dozens of branches – or “satellites” – across the UK, as well as mainland Europe, Africa, the US and Canada.
On Monday, Masocha, a former accountancy lecturer at Stirling University, was found guilty of sexually assaulting a 32-year-old deaconess of the church.
He was also convicted of kissing and caressing a 14-year-old girl at the church’s base at Cosyneuk House in Sauchieburn. The offences were committed between January 2012 and January 2014.
He was cleared of another charge of inducing a girl, then 13, to massage his naked body after the girl retracted her claims.
Another charge that he acted in a similar way with her 16-year-old sister was dropped before trial.
The girls’ family have since rejoined Agape, Falkirk Sheriff Court heard.
Last December, Chirashi, also from Zimbabwe, killed her son Scott and removed his heart at their home in Alva, Clackmannanshire.
She was found not guilty by reason of insanity at the High Court in Glasgow this month.
The court heard how Chirashi was in the grip of mental illness and believed she was “on a mission from God” when she killed her son.
Friends claimed she was left isolated after separating from her husband Tichakunda Chiriseri over his deepening involvement with Agape.
This week, the Record was handed footage of dozens of Masocha’s sermons during events across Scotland and England.
The clips show bizarre faith-healing ceremonies and his followers wiping sweat from his brow.
Ex-cult members also revealed that some of the rags used to collect his sweat were later considered “blessed by the prophet”.
 

In another interview, Masocha also claimed he heard the voice of God during a visit to Loch Katrine.
He said it came as he struggled with God’s instruction to be a “blessing for people throughout the world, starting with my people in Scotland”.
“You might say that God has a sense of humour, because it turns out that Scottish men led me to Christ,” he explained.
“I had an argument for God with quite a while, even though I was here in Scotland for quite a while.
“I struggled with that. I wanted to run away until one day I went to pray in one of the Scottish mountains at a place called Loch Katrine.
“While I was praying, asking God to take this argument off me coming to Scotland, in a very simple way, he just brought back that day I gave my life to Jesus.
“He said, ‘You are now saying you are black and Zimbabwean?’... I thought they were good reasons for not coming to Scotland.
“But God said to me, ‘Why didn’t you say that in 1979 when you were first led to Jesus by Scottish people?’
“When God said that to me, I knew I had lost the argument.”

