THE SNP were yesterday accused of failing Scotland’s schools as figures showed a steep drop in reading and writing standards among pupils.
A nationwide survey revealed the proportion of second-year pupils doing “well or better” at writing has fallen from 64 per cent in 2012 to 55 per cent.
Performance slipped among S2 girls and boys, according to the Scottish Survey of Literacy 2014. Kids from poorer backgrounds saw a marked drop in performance.
Standards have deteriorated in primary schools too.
Education Secretary Angela Constance admitted: “Put simply, while Scottish pupils perform well, these results are not as good as they should be.
“They demonstrate the need to redouble efforts to ensure that every child can succeed in school and so gain the skills they need for life.”
Scottish Labour’s education spokesman Iain Gray said: “These figures are new but they only confirm what we already know – that to improve literacy, particularly for our worst-off pupils, takes concerted and focused action and resource which this Government have failed to provide.
“SNP ministers pulled Scotland out of international literacy studies because they did not like the results. But they cannot hide from their own figures in which their failure is laid bare.
“The decline in literacy levels is compounded by last year’s survey which showed a similar drop in numeracy levels.
“In the 21st century, every child should expect the school system to provide them with the basic skills in literacy and numeracy they need for their future.”
The survey showed 47 per cent of S2 boys were doing well, very well or performing beyond the level in writing – down from 58 per cent in 2012. For S2 girls, the figure fell from 70 to 63 per cent.
In most-deprived communities, 41 per cent of S2 pupils were excelling with their writing, a drop from 54 per cent. Standards fell in affluent areas too, from 74 per cent to 64 per cent.
When it came to reading, the 2014 survey found 80 per cent of S2 students were doing well or very well compared with 84 per cent two years previously.
Performance was also poorer in primary schools, with 78 per cent of P4 pupils and 88 per cent of P7 students reading at this level, compared with 83 per cent and 90 per cent respectively in 2012.
Pupils in S2 are working on Level 3 or 4 of Curriculum for Excellence, which covers S1-S3.
Around 10,000 pupils in 2250 schools were involved in the research last year.
Scottish Parent Teacher Council director Eileen Prior said: “While the reductions are statistically relatively small, it represents a trend which will concern parents.
“With only a few exceptions, the gap in attainment between children from the least and most deprived homes remains stubbornly in place.”

