BRITAIN’S largest ever drugs haul just got even bigger after investigators found further tonne of cocaine on board a tugboat incepted off Scotland’s coast.
Around two tonnes of the white powder had already been discovered in the vessel which was stopped by the Royal Navy and Border Force near Aberdeen a week ago.
 The Record today told how the high-purity drugs had a street value around &pound;500 million . 
Investigators later confirmed the figure and have now revealed that the seizure had risen to three tonnes as their search drew to a close.
John McGowan, senior investigating officer for the NCA, based at the Scottish Crime Campus, Gartcosh, said: “The search of this vessel has been lengthy and painstaking, undertaken by hugely skilled specialists working in difficult conditions.
“The result is this massive discovery – believed to be the biggest single class A drug seizure on record in the UK, and likely to be worth several hundred million pounds.
“Our investigation continues, but the operation was only possible thanks to the close co-operation between the NCA, Border Force, the Royal Navy, plus the French DNRED and our other international partners. The extensive operation in Aberdeen was given substantial support from Police Scotland.”

The 422-tonne vessel under investigation – the Ukrainian-owned Hamal, registered in Tanzania – had set sail from the Canary Islands.
It’s unusual route sailing to northern Europe drew the attention of French marine authorities, who tipped off the National Crime Agency.
Investigators believe the cocaine, most probably sourced in South America, was loaded in the Canary Islands.
After a surveillance operation, the Border Force cutter Valiant and the Navy frigate HMS Somerset intercepted the suspect ship 100 miles off Aberdeen.
It is currently impounded in Aberdeen Harbour, where it was stripped apart.
The nine-man crew of the Hamal, all Turkish nationals aged between 26 and 63, have been charged with drug trafficking offences.
They appeared before Aberdeen Sheriff Court on Monday[27 April] where they were remanded in custody until their next appearance.
A large chunk of the UK’s cocaine supply comes from Colombia or the border areas of neighbouring Venezuela and Ecuador.
The UK is one of Europe’s largest and most profitable markets for the drug. It is estimated 25 to 30 tonnes of cocaine is smuggled into the UK each year.
Most of the cocaine destined for Europe crosses the Atlantic by ship to Spain.
Bulk shipments arrive on container ships at hub ports, such as Antwerp and Rotterdam, before being smuggled into the UK.
Other packages are brought in by yachts, general cargo vessels or air couriers.
Crime groups based in key European countries, such as Spain and the Netherlands, help run the trade.
The UK’s previous biggest haul came on the A9 at Kingussie in 1991. Cops seized cocaine worth &pound;100million and two men were jailed for a total of 17 years.

