A PHARMACIST who appeared on TV game show Deal or No Deal has been accused of stealing controlled drugs.
Kelly MacDonald has been charged over the thefts of drugs including morphine and diazepam. The locum, 28, who appeared on Noel Edmonds’s hit Channel 4 show last year, is also being &shy;investigated by the General Pharmaceutical Council over the &shy;allegations.
It is understood MacDonald – who walked away with only &pound;2.50 winnings from the show – was working as a temporary member of staff at several chemists across Aberdeen.
Despite her arrest, MacDonald is still &shy;registered to work as a pharmacist.
 

A source at one of the shops said: “She always seemed nice but she had some personal problems with her boyfriend, who is Latvian and was &shy;supposedly getting deported.
“She’s been under &shy;investigation by the council for a while because the thefts were happening in shops she was working in as a temp.”
MacDonald was arrested last week and released while a report is sent to the &shy;procurator fiscal’s office and they decide which charges, if any, to proceed with.
The  attempted to contact MacDonald at her &shy;Aberdeen home yesterday but a man at the flat said she did not wish to comment on the allegations.
 A Police Scotland spokesman said: “We can confirm a 28-year-old female has been charged and will be reported to the procurator fiscal in relation to drugs offences and theft. 
 

“She is expected to appear in court at a later date.”
The GPhC said: “We are currently considering the information we’ve received about this registrant.
“However, we do not discuss specific cases unless the registrant has an interim order against their &shy;registration or the case is due to be heard by a public hearing.
“The registrant currently has full registration and is not currently scheduled to appear before us at a public hearing.”
 Following her &shy;appearance on the show, MacDonald posted on Facebook : “I’m gutted to be going home with &pound;2.50. 
“But there just didn’t seem to be a good time for me to go. Absolutely loved it there though and had the most amazing time.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

