A SCOTTISH teacher has wowed his pupils by becoming a keepy-uppy classroom king.
Sandy Campbell showcased his astonishing football freestyle skills at a premier league game last month.
The 23-year-old, who teaches maths at Breadalbane Academy, in Aberfeldy, was handpicked by St Johnstone FC bosses to star at half-time in last month’s Premier League clash with St Mirren.
They invited him after spotting him practising his tricks in a local Perth park.
Modest Sandy said: “Football freestyling was just a hobby for me. After I left school I had a lot of spare time and I would practise by myself, sometimes up to five days a week.
“I was always pretty good at football and liked the skills side of it. I’d seen people performing tricks on the internet and thought I would give it a go.”
And it was Sandy’s dedication to practising that gave St Johnstone staff the heads up about his soccer skills.
He said: “I was down on the South Inch, practising, and St Johnstone were out filming, as their first-ever game was on the South Inch.
“Murray Davidson and a media official were there and they saw me doing my tricks and asked me along to perform at half-time at one of their games.
“It was quite nerve-wracking but I thought it went pretty well. The crowd were supportive, although I think St Mirren fans booed me at one point, but that was probably because I had a blue top on.”
 

Sandy’s favourite trick is heel juggling, which sees him perform keepy-uppy behind his back with his heels, rather than in front of his body, as it is usually done.
He explained: “There are a few tricks I’m trying to get down. I see them on YouTube but you also have ideas for your own ones, although they are the ones that don’t usually work. I reckon standing on your head and trying to do keepy-ups would be the most difficult trick to try,” he laughed.
“Some people make careers out of this so if the teaching doesn’t work out, you never know. St Johnstone have invited me back to another match so hopefully I can perform at another game soon.”
 Try today's sports quiz: 

