
 i produced an error last week about chorion:
 
 >> (by the way mr decenso, you really should have looked in the index of your
 >> bauer-arndt-gingrich greek lexicon.  you would have found that the word in
 >> acts for "lot" is "kleros," not "chorion" as stated by mr archer, and nowhere
 >> in the very large discussion of kleros in done the to "theological dictionary
 >> of the new testament" by bromley, is the meaning "burial plot" discussed.  it
 >> discusses the forms of "kleros" (eg: kleros, kleroo, etc), and the various
 >> meanings of "kleros" (eg: "plot of land," and "inheritance"), but mentions
 >> nothing about chorion or "burial plot." (why does this not surprise me?) thus
 >> it would seem to be a very good thing you dumped archer as a reference).
 > 
 > i was wrong. i admit that i do not have a handle on greek grammar, and thus
 > confused "kleros", the second to last word in acts 1:17 as being the plot of
 > land discussed.  in actuality it is "chorion", which is the last word acts
 > 1:18.  unfortunately my greek dictionary does not discuss "chorion" so i
 > cannot report as to the nuances of the word.
 
 i abhor publishing trash (i abhor it of myself even more than i do from
 others, but since i do not present myself as an authority on the subject, i do
 not feel dishonest, though i do openly admit ignorance and incompetence in
 this example).  thus i felt honor bound to do a better set of research
 specifically on the word.  first it should be noted that greek grammar is not
 as tough as i first assumed (it is not nontrivial by any means, and i still am
 not competent with it, but it is not as opaque as i had thought).  it turns
 out that while the index for the bauer-arndt-gingrich "greek lexicon" renders
 each verse in order, each word within a verse is put in greek alphabetical
 order.  thus while the the meaning of the verse is decipherable, the syntax is
 far from clear.  on the other hand, a greek-english intralinear bible makes
 things a lot more comprehendable.  and yes, the word for field in acts 1:18 is
 indeed "chorion." 
 
 now i've checked several greek-english lexicons:
 
 	"greek english lexicon of the new testament," louw and nida
 	"robinson's greek and english lexicon of the new testament"
 	"greek english lexicon of the new testament," grimm
 	"word study concordance," tynsdale
 	"a greek english lexicon of the new testament and other 
 	 early christian writings," bauer-arndt-gingrich
 	"the new analytical greek lexicon," perschbacher
 
 in each case the meaning of the word chorion was given variously as:
 
 	a space, place, region, district, field, area, "country place," 
 	land, farm, estate, "a bit of tillage", and similar meanings.
 
 nowhere do any of these books mention anything about "grave." as some of these 
 books go into great detail, i would be very surprised to find that these books 
 are all inadequate and mr archer is the only competent scholar in greek.  i 
 think it more likely that mr archer's investigations into "contradictions" to 
 be once again, as your friend said it, "lacking in substance," and thus archer 
 is again shown worthless as an expert witness (by the way mr decenso, i would 
 have honorably presented my results on this matter, even if i had found them
 to support mr archer's contentions). 
 
 by the way, among these lexicons, (eg: robinson's) is the definition of
 "agros," the word used in matthew 27 to describe the field bought.  the word
 "agros" is defined as "a field in the country." chorion is specifically noted
 as a synonym to agros.  this is significant, as it is evidence of how silly
 bullinger's exegisis was, which stated that the word for "field" in matthew
 (ie: agros) is different from the word for "field" in acts (ie: chorion), and
 thus we must be talking about two different fields (of course you already
 admit how stupid bullinger's exegisis is, but this was a small serendipity
 which drives the point home). 
 
 so as of now, unless mr decenso show compelling reasons to believe otherwise
 (eg: a reputable scholar with reputable references), i consider this 
 particular issue closed.  see mr decenso, now you can go on to answer
 questions about the denials of peter, the day of the crucifixion, tyre, and 
 the fact that the author of matthew quoted from the wrong prophet in
 discussing the "potter's field."
  
 				later,
 
 				dave butler
 
     precise knowledge is the only true knowledge, and he who does not teach
     exactly, does not teach at all.
 				henry ward beecher
 				american clergyman
 				as recorded by george seldes
 