
 
 the most recent reason given by the clinton administration for
 calling for federally funded abortions is that many private
 health insurance programs offer coverage for abortion.
 
 the following are two form letters regarding this.  please send
 them around to friends as well as other bbss
 
 dennis
 dzkriz@ocf.berkeley.edu
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 to private insurers:
 
 
 
 
 
 re: abortion and my health insurance coverage
 
 
 to whom it may concern:
 
 i recently have become aware that my health insurance includes
 coverage for abortion.  i strongly oppose abortion for reasons of
 conscience.  it disturbs me deeply to know that my premiums may
 be being used to pay for that which i sincerely believe is
 murder.  i would like to request that i be exempted from abortion
 coverage with my health premiums reduced accordingly.
 
                               sincerely,
 
 
 
 my policy number is:
   
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
 to your state and national representatives:
 
 
 
 
 
 re: abortion and health coverage
 
 dear 
 
 
 it has recently come to my attention as a result of the current
 abortion debate that my health insurance coverage provided by my
 employer may include coverage paying for abortions.  
 
 i strongly oppose abortion for reasons of conscience and am
 disturbed greatly that my coverage may be being used in this
 manner.  however, i depend on my employers' provided health
 coverage, and fear that if i speak up about it, that i may lose
 not only my coverage but even my job.
 
 i would like to ask you to put into law the provision that health
 insurance providers make abortion coverage non-compulsory in
 their health insurance program, so that it can be declined, with
 an appropriate reduction in premium.
 
 in order that there be no difference in the dollar ammount in the
 health benefit packages between those who would choose to have
 abortion coverage and those who would not, i further ask that you
 include a provision in which the reduction in premium resulting
 from the declining of "abortion coverage" be paid-out to the
 employee, rather than pocketed by the employer.  
 
 this second provision should serve to dissuade employers from
 pressuring employees into taking one or the other stand with
 regard to abortion services.  thank you very much.  your fellow
 citizen.
 
                                    sincerely,
 
 
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 