
 i would like to apologize for the typos in the previous post.
 
 in retrospect i would also like to quote another source: douglas c.
 haldeman from his 1991 book _homosexuality_
 
 therapy ineffective
 
 recently the founders of yet another prominent "ex-gay" ministry, exodus
 international, denounced their conversion therapy procedures as ineffective.
 michael busse and gary cooper, cofounders of exodus international and lovers
 for 13 years, were involved with the organization from 1976 to 1979.  the
 program was described by these men as "ineffective . . . not one person was
 healed."  they stated that the program often exacerbated already prominent
 feelings of guilt and personal failure among the counselees; many were
 driven to suicidal thoughts as a result of the failed "reparative therapy."
 
 the previous article quoted in the last posting is from the advocate, june
 30, 1992 called "the ex-ex-gay" by robert pela.
 
 some personal thoughts:
 
 it is of no great astonishment that there is a concerted effort by a major
 portion of the church to control and mandate change of a minority among
 its ranks.  this was the momentum behind the spanish inquisition, only all
 they required was a confession of faith (after much torture) and then, to
 save their souls they would dispatch them to heaven through death.  even
 later, the bible was used vigorously to defend slavery, oppression and
 segragation of african-americans, even to the justification of lynchings.
 today's scholars are just a bit more slick in their approach.  the tool is
 still coersion, but now it is mostly by means of brainwashing and mind
 control, convincing people that they should see themselves as less than
 god sees them, then maintaining a cultic hold on them until it is felt
 thier mind-conditioning is complete.  sure, no one is "physically" forced
 to stay in this "reparative therapy" but sheer social pressure is enough for
 many to keep themselves in this new found bondage of self-hate.
 
 as an abolitionist i advocate the abolishment of oppression and persecution
 against gays in all facets of civil life.  a person should be judged by
 the contibution, or non-contribution to the society in which they live,
 not by some high-brow standard of conformity imposed by those who haven';t
 a clue what is in their heart.
 
 for those who seek more information about gays and groups that accept them
 please contact your nearest chapter of pflag (parents & friends of lesbians
 and gays) who will be more than happy to assist you.  this is a group of
 people comprised of gays, lesbians and bisexuals, their parents and friends
 who have formed a support group for help and understanding.  try talking to
 a parent of a gay son or daughter and learn some "first-hand" real life and
 loving understanding.  god's love and understanding for gay people is no
 less abundant.
 
 thank you.
 pax
 