
 droplet vol 1, no 11, part 1
 
 a  d r o p l e t
 from the vast ocean of the miraculous qur'an
 
 translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
 bediuzzaman said nursi, the risale-i noor
 
 vol 1, no 11, part 1
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
    		 nineteenth letter  
 
 		 mu'jizat-i ahmediye risalesi 
 (a treatise on the miracles of muhammad saw)       
 (saw: peace and blessings be upon him)
 
 in his name (allah) , be he (allah) glorified!
 there is nothing but glorifies his (allah's) praise.
 
 in the name of  allah, the compassionate, the merciful
 
    "he is who has sent his messenger with
 guidance and the religion of truth  to make it
 supreme over all religion:  and sufficient is allah
 as a witness.  muhammad is the messenger of
 allah, and those who are with him are firm
 against the unbelievers and merciful among
 each other.  you will see them bowing and
 prostrating  themselves, seeking allah's grace
 and his pleasure.  their mark is on their face
 the sing of prostrafion; this is their similitude in
 the torah and indgil." [the our'an 48:28-29]
 
    since the nineteenth and thirhy-first words
 concerning the mission of muhammad (saw) prove his
 prophethood with decisive evidences, we assign the
 verification of that subject to those words.
    as a supplement to them, we will merely show here
 in nineteen signs, some  of the flashes of that great
 truth.
 
    first sign:  the owner and master of this universe
 does everything with knowledge, disposes every affair
 with wisdom, directs everything all-seeingly, treats
 everything all-knowingly, and arranges in everything with
 his will and wisdom such causes, purposes and uses that
 are apparent to us.  since the one who creates knows,
 surely the one who knows will speak, since he will
 speak, surely he will speak to those who have
 consciousness, thought, and speech.  since he will speak
 to those who have thought, surely he will speak to
 humankind, whose make-up and awareness are more
 comprehensive of all conscious beings.  since he will
 speak to humankind, surely he will speak to the most
 perfect of mankind and those most worthy of address and
 highest in morality, and who are qualified to guide
 humanity; then he will certainly speak to muhammad (saw), 
 who, as friend and foe alike testify, is of the highest 
 character and morality, and who is obeyed by one fifth
 of humanity, to whose spiritual rule half of the globe has
 submitted, with the radiance of whose light has been
 illumined the future of mankind for thirteen centuries, to
 whom the believers, the luminous segment of humanity,
 renew their oath of allegiance five times a day, for
 whose happiness and peace they pray, for whom they call
 down allah's blessings and bear admiration and love in
 their hearts.
 
    certainly, he will speak to muhammad (saw),
 and indeed he has done so;  he will make him the
 messenger, and indeed he has done so; he will make
 him the guide for the rest of humanity, and indeed he
 has done so.
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 to be continued in$a allah.
 your br. irfan in islam.
 
 
 