
 i was curious to check out how many san jose mercury news mentioned
 tyre (1990-92). here's the outcome from the research (condenced versions,
 copyright san jose mercury news):
 
 ---
   bombings in the two largest cities in southern lebanon killed 11 people
 and 
 wounded 80 others. a car bomb blew up in tyre, killing 10 people and
 wounding 
 75. a man was killed and five others seriously wounded in an explosion in 
 nabatiye.
 ---
   an israeli navy patrol boat attacked and sank a rubber guerrilla boat off
 
 southern lebanon early today, killing the two men aboard, the army command 
 said.
   
      it said in a communique that a dvora patrol boat opened fire on the 
 motorized rubber dinghy north of tyre after identifying it as hostile. the
 army 
 said no one on the israeli boat was injured. the affiliation of the slain 
 guerrillas was not immediately known.
 ---
   rival factions of the guerrilla group led by terrorist mastermind abu
 nidal 
 battled sunday in tyre, lebanon, with machine guns and rocket-propelled 
 grenades, killing at least four people and wounding 15, police said.
 ---
  lebanon's mainstream shiite muslim militia said thursday that it had 
 uncovered a network of tunnels in a southern lebanese village where it said
 pro-
 iranian kidnappers had held western hostages.
   
      officials of the militia, amal, led local journalists through the
 catacomb-
 like alleys and showed them two cells with iron doors at the village, 
 kawthariyet al siyad, near tyre, the ancient port city, about 40 miles
 south of 
 beirut.
   
      the officials said they were certain that u.s. marine lt. col. william
 r. 
 higgins was detained there shortly after he was seized by gunmen on a road 
 outside tyre in february 1988.
 --------------
 ...anyway, i counted 20 articles during these 3 years of reporting. i also
 found out the possible reason why the numbers for the inhabitants of the
 city is defined between 14000 and 24000. it seems that tyre is one of the
 places
 where people from libanon flee to during more extensive bombings, so
 there's
 a constant flow of refugees entering and leaving tyre (articles mentioned
 thousands of people entering and leaving this place).
 
 i counted 0 articles for my home town, kristinestad, so from now i will
 consider this place to be a fishing village :-).
 
 cheers,
 kent
 
 ---
 sandvik@newton.apple.com. alink: ksand -- private activities on the net.
 