
 the roman catholic conservatives are coming out in the open to line
 up with pat robertson and his ultra right wing christian coalition.
 former secretary of education william bennet, a roman catholic, stood
 beside the christian coalition's spokesman ralph reed at a march 3
 conference in washington.  the purpose of the conference was to
 publish results of a christian coalition poll which was designed
 to prove that the republican party would lose major support if it
 backed away from the "family values" positons of the '92 convention.
 
 conservative catholics have swung behind robertson's organization
 with political expertise, legal assistance and high tech communications
 support.
 
 the catholic campaign for  american, designed as a catholic version
 of the moral majority, was founded by marlene elwell and tom wykes.
 ms. elwell has been with robertson since the days of his freedom
 council in 1985 and worked for him in his presidential bid in 1988.
 
 ms. elwell was hired by domino's pizza magnate, tom monaghan, in 1989
 to manage legatus, a "nonpolitical", catholic businessmen's group.
 membership is limited to catholics who head corporations with a least $4
 million in annual revenues.  relying on a network of wealthy contacts
 at legatus, elwell and wykes had little trouble forming and funding the
 catholic campaign.
 
 the campaign's list of national committee members includes u.s. rep.
 robert k. dornan, phyllis schlafly of the eagle forum, the lovely
 pat buchanan and rev. richard j. neuhaus.   also on the national
 committee is keith fournier, a catholic who heads pat robertson's
 american center for law and justice.  another catholic, thomas
 patrick monaghan, senior counsel of robertson's aclj, is also an
 active supporter of the catholic campaign.
 
 the board of directors includes frank shakespeare, broadcasting exec
 and former u.s. ambassador to the pope, wall street executive frank
 lynch, former reagan official richard v. allen, bishop rene gracida
 of corpus christi and mary ellen bork, wife of unsuccessful supreme
 court nominee robert bork.
 
 in the winter 1992 issue of _campaign update_ the organization's
 quarterly newsletter, rocco l. martino, a philadelphia business
 executive wrote: "separation of church and state is a false premise
 that must finally be cast aside and replaced by the true meaning of
 our constitution."
 
 oh yes, the organization's "national ecclesisatical advisor" is
 catholic politician cardinal john j. o'connor of new york.
 
 jack carroll
 