
 
 the following is an introduction as to who is muhammad saw
 as will be covered with this treatise.
 
 muhammad peace and blessings of allah be upon him (saw)
 is the last prophet of islam.  he is the prophet who is revealed
 the last holy scripture, qur'an, by allah swa (all praise be to him)
 through the arch angel gabriel.  he is the seal of all prophets
 till the day of judgement as stated in the qur'an by allah
 swa (all praise be to him).  muhammad saw lived between
 571-632 ac.  all other prophethoods claimed after muhammad saw,
 is a treason against islam, against qur'an, against the message
 of allah swa.  muhammad saw is from the seed of ishmael, another
 messenger of allah and son of abraham also a messenger of allah.
 he is the messenger that previous holy scriptures foretold his
 coming.  the above mentioned verse from the qur'an is from 
 chapter 33, verse 40 whose rough translation is as follows:
 
 	muhammad is not the father of any of your men,
 	but (he is) the messenger of allah, and the seal
 	of the prophets, and allah has full knowledge of
 	all things.
 
 ---------------------
 commentary on the above verse:  when a document is sealed,
 it is complete, and there can be no further addition.  the 
 holy prophet muhammad saw closed the long line of messengers.
 allah's teaching is and will always be continuous, but there
 has been and will be no prophet after muhammad saw.  the later
 ages will want thinkers, and revivers, not prophets.  this is not
 an arbitrary matter.  it is a decree full of knowledge and wisdom,
 "for allah has full knowledge of all things."
 
 ----------------------
 droplet vol 1, no 11, part 2
 
 a   d r o p l e t
 from the vast ocean of the miraculous qur'an
 
 translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
 bediuzzaman said nursi, the risale-i noor
 
 vol 1, no 11, part 2
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
    		 nineteenth letter  
 
 		 mu'jizat-i ahmediye risalesi 
 (a treatise on the miracles of muhammed saw)       
 
 (continued from droplet vol 1, no 11, part 1)
 
    second  sign:   the  noble  messenger  (saw)
 declared his prophethood, and presented to humanity a
 decree as the glorious qur'an and manifest miracles
 which number, according to the scholars, one thousand.
 the occurrence of those miracles in their entirety is as
 certain as the fact that he declared himself prophet.  in
 fact, as a shown by the words of the  most obstinate
 unbelievers quoted in various places of the wise
 our'an, even they could not deny the occurrence of his
 miracles, but only called them -hasha wa kella!-(allah forbids) 
 sorcery, in order to satisfy themselves, or to deceive their
 followers.  the miracles of muhammad (saw) have the
 certainty of confirmation by consensus of ulema (scholars
 of islam) to the hundreth degree.
    the miracle is the conformation by the creator of
 the universe of his declaration of prophethood; it has the
 effect of the words,'you have indeed spoken the truth !'
    suppose that you said in the assembly of a ruler,
 while being observed by him, 'the true ruler has
 appointed me to such and such position.  'at a time when
 you were asked to prove your claim, the word 'yes'
 uttered by the ruler would sufficiently support you.  or, if
 the ruler changed his usual practice and attitude at your
 request, this would confirm your claim even more soundly
 and more definitely than would the word 'yes.'
    in the same way, allah's most noble messenger
 claimed: 'i am the envoy of the creator of this
 universe.  my proof is that he will change his unbroken
 order at my request and my prayer.  now look at my
 fingers:  he makes them run like a fountain with five
 spigots.  look at the moon: by a gesture of my finger, he
 splits it in two.  look at that tree: to affirm me, and to bear
 witness to me, it moves and comes near to me.  look at
 this food: although it is barely enough for two or three
 men, it satisfies two or three hundred.  'further he shows
 hundreds of similar miracles.  however, the evidences  of
 the veracity of this high being and the proofs of his
 prophethood are not restricted to his miracles.  all his
 deeds and acts, his words and behavior, his moral
 conduct and manners, his character and appearance
 prove to the attentive his truthfulness and seriousness.
 indeed, many people  such  as  abdullah  b. salam,  the
 famous scholar of the children of israel, came to belief
 merely by seeing him, and said, 'no lie can hide in this
 face, nor can any fraud be found in it!'
    although many of the  researchers have concluded
 that the proofs of the prophethood of muhammad and his
 miracles number about one thousand, there are
 thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of proofs  of
 his prophethood.  and hundreds of thousands of
 truth-seeking men (muhakkikiin) with varying opinions
 have affirmed his prophethood in an equal number of
 ways.
    the wise our'an alone demonstrates thousands of
 the proofs of his prophethood, in addition to its own forty
 aspects of miraculousness.  since prophethood is as a
 phenomenon of humanity, and hundreds of thousands of
 individuals who claimed prophethood and performed
 miracles have lived and passed away; then, the
 prophethood of muhammad (saw) is of a certanity
 superior to that of the prophethood of all the others.  for
 whatever evidences, qualities  and attributes  became the
 means of the prophethood and messengership of all the
 messengers such as jesus (as) and moses (as), they
 are all owned in a more perfect and comprehensive
 fashion by muhammad (saw).  and since the causes and
 means of prophetic authority exist more perfectly in the
 person of muhammad (saw), this authority is to be found
 in him with more certanity than all the other prophets.
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 to be continued allah willing.
 irfan alan, a servant of islam.
 
 