
 sandvik@newton.apple.com (kent sandvik) writes:
 
 >my online bible is on a cd, but i don't own a cd-rom system for the
 >time being, so i can't search for the famous cite where jesus explicitly
 >states that he didn't want to break existing (jewish) laws. in other
 >words technically speaking christians should use saturday and not sunday
 >as their holy day, if they want to conform to the teachings of jesus.
 
 i think the passage you're looking for is the following.
 
 matthew 5:17    "think not that i have come to abolish the law and the 
 prophets; i have come not to abolish them but to fulfil them. 
 matthew 5:18   for truly, i say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, 
 not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished. 
 matthew 5:19   whoever then relaxes one of the least of these commandments 
 and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but he 
 who does them and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of 
 heaven. 
 matthew 5:20   for i tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of 
 the scribes and pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. 
 
 there are several problems with this.  the most serious is that the
 law was regarded by jews at the time (and now) as binding on jews, but
 not on gentiles.  there are rules that were binding on all human
 beings (the so-called noachic laws), but they are quite minimal.  the
 issue that the church had to face after jesus' death was what to do
 about gentiles who wanted to follow christ.  the decision not to
 impose the law on them didn't say that the law was abolished.  it
 simply acknowledged that fact that it didn't apply to gentiles.  this
 is a simple answer, which i think just about everyone can agree to.
 (a discussion of the issue in more or less these terms is recorded
 in acts 15.)
 
 however there's more involved.  in order to get a full picture of the
 role of the law, we have to come to grips with paul's apparent
 rejection of the law, and how that relates to jesus' commendation of
 the law.  at least as i read paul, he says that the law serves a
 purpose that has been in a certain sense superceded.  again, this
 issue isn't one of the abolition of the law.  in the middle of his
 discussion, paul notes that he might be understood this way, and
 assures us that that's not what he intends to say.  rather, he sees
 the law as primarily being present to convict people of their
 sinfulness.  but ultimately it's an impossible standard, and one that
 has been superceded by christ.  paul's comments are not the world's
 clearest here, and not everyone agrees with my reading.  but the
 interesting thing to notice is that even this radical position does
 not entail an abolition of the law.  it still remains as an
 uncompromising standard, from which not an iota or dot may be removed.
 for its purpose of convicting of sin, it's important that it not be
 relaxed.  however for christians, it's not the end -- ultimately we
 live in faith, not law.
 
 while the theoretical categories they use are rather different, in the
 end i think jesus and paul come to a rather similar conclusion.  the
 quoted passage from mat 5 should be taken in the context of the rest
 of the sermon on the mount, where jesus shows us how he interprets the
 law.  the "not an iota or dot" would suggest a rather literal reading,
 but in fact that's not jesus' approach.  jesus' interpretations
 emphasize the intent of the law, and stay away from the ceremonial
 details.  indeed he is well known for taking a rather free attitude
 towards the sabbath and kosher laws.  some scholars claim that mat
 5:17-20 needs to be taken in the context of 1st cent. jewish
 discussions.  jesus accuses his opponents of caring about giving a
 tenth of even the most minor herbs, but neglecting the things that
 really matter: justice, mercy and faith, and caring about how cups and
 plates are cleaned, but not about the fact that inside the people who
 use them are full of extortion and rapacity.  (mat 23:23-25) this, and
 the discussion later in mat 5, suggest that jesus has a very specific
 view of the law in mind, and that when he talks about maintaining the
 law in its full strength, he is thinking of these aspects of it.
 paul's conclusion is similar.  while he talks about the law being
 superceded, all of the specific examples he gives involve the
 "ceremonial law", such as circumcision and the sabbath.  he is quite
 concerned about maintaining moral standards.
 
 the net result of this is that when paul talks about the law being
 superceded, and jesus talks about the law being maintained, i believe
 they are talking about different aspects of the law.  paul is
 embroiled in arguments about circumcision.  as is natural in letters
 responding to specific situations, he's looking at the aspect of the
 law that is currently causing trouble: the law as specifically jewish
 ceremonies.  he certainly does not intend to abolish divine standards
 of conduct.  on the other hand, when jesus commends the law, he seems
 to be talking the law in its broadest implications for morals and
 human relationships, and deemphasizing those aspects that were later
 to give paul so much trouble.
 
 it's unfortunate that people use the same terms in different ways, but
 we should be familiar with that from current conflicts.  look at the
 way terms like "family values" take on special meaning from the
 current context.  imagine some poor historian of the future trying to
 figure out why "family values" should be used as a code word for
 opposition to homosexuality in one specific period in the u.s.  i
 think law had taken on a similar role in the arguments paul was
 involved in.  paul was clearly not rejecting all of the jewish values
 that go along with the term "law", any more than people who concerned
 about the "family values" movement are really opposed to family
 values.
 