
 rich.bellacera@amail.amdahl.com writes:
 > 
 > the results of the passing amendment in
 > colorado has created an organization who's posters are appearing all over
 > colorado called "s.t.r.a.i.g.h.t." (i forget the whole definition off hand,
 > but the last part was against immoral gross homosexual trash) and their motto
 > is "working for a fag-free america" with an implicit advocation for violence.
 
 i live in colorado, and have never heard of such a group.  obviously claims 
 that their posters are appearing "all over colorado" are a tad overdone... 
 
 > this is sick, and it seems to be what you and mr. hudson, and others are
 > embracing.
 
 hardly.  saying that homosexuality is a sin is a far cry from 
 "working for a fag-free america".  saying that i wouldn't want 
 a homosexual babysitting for my kids doesnt mean i endorse 
 "against immoral gross homosexual trash".  
 
 > we christians have a loooooooooong tradition of coersion and oppression
 > towards those we feel don't 'measure up',
 
 and now we have homosexual advocates telling us that if we don't teach 
 our kids that homosexuality is natural and a perfectly acceptable 
 alternative lifestyle, then they will have it done for us.  no, thanks. 
 
 > the gospel i believe is not so negative, rather it seeks ways to "include"
 > people. 
 
 absolutely.  and the message is always, "go and sin no more".  not, 
 go and do whatever "feels good". 
 
 one question, at the start of your post, you wrote:
 
 > i know many gays and i will not turn my back on them or their right to be free
 > form discrimination...i may have lost face with the greater christian
 > community for the unpopularity of my beliefs, but so did the abolitionists
 > against the oppression of african-americans.  many were even killed and
 > treated as runaway slaves for being "nigger-lovers" and such.  i guess i've
 > decided the challenge is worth it.
 
 this sounds real nice, but struck me as a little odd.  you're 
 presenting yourself as if you were a straight xian, who is sticking
 his neck out and taking on the challenge of speaking out in support 
 of gays in the church.  but i was under the impression that you
 yourself are gay.  that's all well and fine, but presenting yourself 
 as sticking out your neck to help "repressed others" seems a bit 
 untruthful under the circumstances.... 
 
 walter
 
 