
 brian kendig writes:
 
 >  lev 17:11: for the life of the flesh is in the blood, and i have given
 >  it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls; for it is
 >  the blood that makes atonement for the soul.
 >
 >the old testament was very big on the "eye for an eye" business.  it
 >makes sense that leviticus would support physical injury to "repay"
 >moral wrongdoing.
 
 brian k., guess what?  you missed the point.  on a scale from cold to
 hot, you are at 0 degrees kelvin.
 
 >i know about sanctification.  i've been taught all about it in sunday
 >school, catechism class, and theology classes.  but even after all
 >that, i still can't accept it.  maybe i'm still not understanding it,
 >or maybe i'm just understanding it all too well.
 
 then as you understand it, what is it?
 
 >from the bottom of my heart i know that the punishment of an innocent
 >man is wrong.
 
 yes.  i agree with that.  but what does that have to do with jesus?
 punishment you say?  jesus did not regard his death as punishment. 
 
 >i've tried repeatedly over the course of several years
 >to accept it, but i just can't. 
 
 good.  i wouldn't either--not the way you understand it.  
 
 >if you can explain to me why the death of jesus was a *good* thing,
 >then i would be very glad to hear it, and you might even convert me.
 >be warned, however, that i've heard all the most common arguments
 >before, and they just don't convince me.
 
 ask jesus himself.  he himself said why in john 12:23-32.  it
 isn't a mystery to anyone and there certainly is no need for
 a persuasive argument.   read jesus's own reply to your
 question.
 
 jesus gives more reasons in john 16:7.  but one obvious reason
 why jesus died, (and as with everything else, it has nothing do with
 his punishment) was that he could rise to life again--so that
 we would "stop doubting and believe" (john 21:27).  the fact
 that jesus rose from the dead is my hope that i too will rise
 from the dead.  it is an obvious point.  do not overlook it.
 without this obvious point, i would have no hope
 and my faith would be vanity.
 
 why did jesus suffer in his death?  again, ask jesus.  jesus
 says why in john 15:18-25.   that's no mystery either.  "the
 world hates him without reason."  it is a direct proclamation
 of how far we humans botch things up and thus, how much we
 need a saviour.
 
 and why can't you, brian k., accept this?  how can you?  "the
 world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows
 him."  (john 14:17).   the animosity and the lack of knowledge
 that comes out in your twistings of robert's daily verses is
 very convincing testimony of the truth of john 14:17 and 16:25.
 i pray and hope that i do blurt out such animosity and lack of
 knowledge. i am not perfect either.  but regardless of that, i thank
 god that jesus revealed himself to me, without whom i'd also be
 bumbling about blindly though arrogantly slandering the very
 person who created me and who loves me.
 