
 m23364@mwunix.mitre.org (james meritt) writes:
 >}(4)  so the fact that stephen did not reply to a does not justify the
 >}     conclusion that stephen condoned taking quotes out of context in a
 >excellent. now under what conditions could such a conclusion be made, other
 >than a direct assertion by his part.
 
 replace "stephen" with "david joslin," since you directed the same
 accusation of hypocrisy at me.  in e-mail to me you wrote:
     in t.r.m. robert weiss writes [a promise from psalm 9:10]
     gee, since you wouldn't be at all hypocritical, you must be really
     busy arguing against these out-of-context extracted translations!
 
 as you may recall, you mailed me six mail messages quoting articles by
 robert weiss, all sent within a few minutes of each other.  you added:
     naturally, i await your arguments against this out-of-context
     translation.  but i shall not await holding my breath...
 and
     wonder when you get to sleep, disputing all these out-of-context
     extracted translations!
 and other similar comments. 
 
 perhaps you could explain why you ever thought that i might have a
 reason to read all of these articles you pulled off of t.r.m, much
 less write responses to them?  
 
 
 >have you, by chance, ever even heard of inductive logic?  you are not
 >demonstrating any familiarly with it (i.e. you are being insufficiently
 >logical).
 
 i am familiar with inductive logic.  go ahead and give me the details
 of the "logic" that led you to conclude, incorrectly, that i would
 condone robert weiss taking verses out of context.  your conclusion was
 wrong, of course, since i agree that both you and robert weiss were
 guity of taking verses out of context.  nothing hypocritical about
 that, is there?  
 
 since you reached a false conclusion, you made some mistake in your
 "logic."  the only question is where.  did you think that it would
 be hypocritical for me not to post a reply to robert weiss' articles?
 did you make the common creationist error of confusing a lack of
 evidence for x with evidence for the lack of x?   is your grasp of
 inductive logic not quite as firm as you think? see if you can figure
 out what your mistake was, and learn from it.
 
 dj
 