
 in article <1993apr14.200259.20419@microsoft.com>, 
 iank@microsoft.com (ian kennedy) writes...
 
 (stephen) wrote:
 >>correction to my prior post, proper citation is:
 >>
 >>	isaiah 30:26 -- moreover the light of the moon shall
 >>	   be as the light of the sun, and the light of the 
 >>	   sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days,
 >>	   in the day that the lord bindeth up the breach of
 >>	   his people, and healeth the stroke of their wound.
 > 
 >so we have to wait for the sun to nova?
 
 more along the lines of hebrews 12:25-29, i reckon...
 
 	see that you refuse not him that speaks. for if they
 	escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much 
 	more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that 
 	speaks from heaven:
 
 	whose voice then shook the earth: but now he has promised,
 	saying, yet once more i shake not the earth only, but also
 	heaven.
 
 	and this word, yet once more, signifies the removing of
 	those things that are shaken, as of things that are made,
 	that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
 
 	wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, 
 	let us have grace, whereby we may serve god acceptably 
 	with reverence and godly fear:
 
 	for our god is a consuming fire.
 
 
 or 2nd thessalonians 1:7-10...
 
 	and to you who are troubled rest with us, when the lord
 	jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels,
  	in flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not god,
 	and that obey not the gospel of our lord jesus christ:
 
 	who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from 
 	the presence of the lord, and from the glory of his power;
  	when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be
 	admired in all them that believe (because our testimony 
 	among you was believed) in that day. 
 
 
 kinda gives flaming a whole new meaning, i reckon. 
 
 			      - < > -
 
 the impression i got from talking with livingston was that the coming
 of the lord, power-wise, is going to be something that those who are
 unprepared can't handle -- kinda like overloading a fuse -- due to 
 guilt. somehow it seems to also apply to the entire physical world as 
 we know it. lf suggests that god doesn't want that and has sent koresh 
 as a reminder. 
 
 seems that those who have been purified through salvation, or that those
 protected by the seals, will be the ones who survive. and no -- i don't 
 have a good idea yet what "being shielded by the seals" actually involves 
 or how exactly it relates to salvation. (other than it involves the
 marriage of the bridegroom and the bride... for those of you biblical
 well versed.)
 			     - < > -
 
 me personally, i'm totally 100% dependent on god through christ, so 
 if god wants me to understand, good. if not, also good. if god wants
 to save me, or dispose of me, that's great either way. being born in
 the spirit, means being part of the body of christ (ephesians 2), so
 who and what i was, matters little. * what's important is loving god *
 
 come nova, nuke, or apocalypse -- who cares? satan might even be able 
 to pull off a pretty convincing fake. big deal. not worth fearing or 
 worrying about though, not before:
 
 
 		   -* the greater glory of god *-
  	
 
 maybe koresh is right, maybe he isn't, and it should be interesting to 
 see the new message (or prophecy). the tour of the bible i've taken in 
 studying the passages he points to in the 3-02 text, has been most re-
 warding. but the test of prophecy is still the fruit it bears -- which 
 is not yet clear. 
 
 much much more important is "charity" -- which by definition *is* --
 
 	                   love for god
 
 (i hope dear reader, you've taken all this as an expression of faith, 
  and not a statement of mere fact. seems many folks get real upset at 
  reminders. ;-)
 
    |
 -- j -- 
    |
    | stephen
 
 