
 david joslin (joslin@pogo.isp.pitt.edu) wrote:
 : af664@yfn.ysu.edu (frank decenso, jr.) writes:
 : >based on the amount of e-mail from fellow christians who have read the
 : >posts and told me i was wasting my time with butler and joslin, i told
 : >them i wasn't doing it for db or  dj but for other christians.  they
 : >have told me that db's and dj's arguments won't convince most bible
 : >studying christians.  so i have reevaluated my purpose here and it's
 : >also contributed to my decision.
 
 : so most bible-studying christians won't be convinced by my arguments? 
 : and this is supposed to be a good thing, i presume?
 
 where does this "most bible studying christians think as frank
 does" come from.  and what implied "good" are you doing for other
 christians?
 
 at least some of what you are teaching has been demonstrated as
 wrong.  has it ever occured to you that you may be doing more harm
 than good to your fellow christians?
 
 btw, i used to think like frank does.  i went to a fundamentalist
 church for a while.  i didn't start to really think about what
 they were saying until i noticed a "god's science" phamphlet
 there.  i read it and noticed that the authors of it knew virtually
 nothing about science.  i asked church members some questions about
 "theories" from the phamphlet and got only deceptive answers.  i
 began to notice a very similar style of "answers" for theological
 questions as well.  the only conclusion i could reach was that
 these peoples' beliefs about the bible were about as valid as
 their beliefs in their god's science phamphlet.
 
 : if there are still people out there who think that my purpose here
 : is to "attack the bible," (an accusation frank once made) i would point
 : out that i have also criticized people who have posted "bible
 : contradictions" that turn out to be silly, out of context, or easily
 : (and legitimately) reconciled.  i'm not attacking the bible, but 
 : intellectual dishonesty *about* the bible, from either side.
 
 if one of the primary purposes of christians is to seek out truth,
 how can people condemn you for doing this?
 
 --
 dale skiba
 