  <1993apr14.130150.28931@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu>
 lines: 68
 
 93!04.16 e.v.  after the glorious eve of taxation
 
 do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law.
 the word of sin is restriction.
 
 
 "to all whom it may concern -
 
 ...
 
 "it is known only to a few that there exists an external visible
 organization of such men and women, who having themselves found
 the path to real self-knowledge, and who, having travelled the
 burning sands, are willing to give the benefit of their experience,
 and to act as spiritual guides to those who are willing to be
 guided.
 
 "while numberless societies, associations, orders, groups etc.
 have been founded during the last thirty years in all parts of
 the civilised world, all following some line of occult study,
 yet there is but one ancient organization of genuine mystics
 which shows the seeker after truth a royal road to discover
 the lost mysteries of antiquity, and to the unveiling of the
 one hermetic truth.
 
 "this organization is known at the present time as the ancient
 order of oriental templars.  ordo templi orientis.  otherwise:
 the hermetic brotherhood of light.
 
 "it is a modern school of magic.  and, like the ancient schools
 of magic, it derived its knowledge from the east.  this knowledge
 was never its possessors.[sic] it was recorded in symbol, parable 
 and allegory, requiring a key for its interpretation....
 
 "this key can be placed within the reach of all those who... apply
 for membership to the oriental templars (o.t.o.). 
 
 "the o.t.o.... is a body of initiates in whose hands are
 concentrated the secret knowledge of all oriental orders and of all
 existing masonic degrees....
 
 "the o.t.o., although an academia masonica, is not a masonic body,
 so far as the craft degrees are concerned in the sense in which that
 expression is usually understood in england, and therefore in no way
 conflicts with or infringes the just priveleges of the united lodge
 of england.  english master masons in good standing, by arrangement,
 on affiliation, are admitted at reduced charges.  members of the ix
 degree become part-proprietors of the estates and goods of the order.
 for further information see the publications of the o.t.o., and the
 synopsis of the degrees of the o.t.o."
 
 'constitution of the ancient order of oriental templars,
  ordo templi orientis', 
 
 by frater superior merlin peregrinus x degree, 
 past grand master albert karl theodor reuss
 
 
 taken from _equinox iii: 10_, 
 edited by frater superior rex summus sanctissimus,
 united states caliph of ordo templi orientis
 
 
 invoke me under my stars.  love is the law, love under will.
 
 i am i!
 
 frater (i) nigris (dclxvi) (cccxxxiii) 
 