
                                 text 45
 
                         trai-gunya-visaya veda
                         nistrai-gunyo bhavarjuna
                      nirdvandvo nitya-sattva-stho
                           niryoga-ksema atmavan
   
 trai-gunya--pertaining to the three modes of material nature;
 visayah--on the subject matter; vedah--vedic literatures;
 nistrai-gunyah--transcendental to the three modes of material nature;
 bhava--be; arjuna--o arjuna; nirdvandvah--without duality;
 nitya-sattva-sthah--in a pure state of spiritual existence;
 niryoga-ksemah--free from ideas of gain and protection;
 atma-van--established in the self.
     
                               translation
 
  the vedas deal mainly with the subject of the three modes of material
 nature. o arjuna, become transcendental to these three modes. be free
 from all dualities and from all anxieties for gain and safety, and be
 established in the self.
   
                                 purport
 
  all material activities involve actions and reactions in the three
 modes of material nature. they are meant for fruitive results, which
 cause bondage in the material world. the vedas deal mostly with fruitive
 activities to gradually elevate the general public from the field of
 sense gratification to a position on the transcendental plane. arjuna,
 as a student and friend of lord krsna, is advised to raise himself to
 the transcendental position of vedanta philosophy where, in the
 beginning, there is brahma-jijnasa, or questions on the supreme
 transcendence. all the living entities who are in the material world are
 struggling very hard for existence. for them the lord, after creation of
 the material world, gave the vedic wisdom advising how to live and get
 rid of the material entanglement. when the activities for sense
 gratification, namely the karma-kanda chapter, are finished, then the
 chance for spiritual realization is offered in the form of the
 upanisads, which are part of different vedas, as the bhagavad-gita is a
 part of the fifth veda, namely the mahabharata. the upanisads mark the
 beginning of transcendental life.
 
  as long as the material body exists, there are actions and reactions in
 the material modes. one has to learn tolerance in the face of dualities
 such as happiness and distress, or cold and warmth, and by tolerating
 such dualities become free from anxieties regarding gain and loss. this
 transcendental position is achieved in full krsna consciousness when one
 is fully dependent on the good will of krsna.
 
 bhagavad-gita as it is
 books of a.c. bhaktivedanta swami
 
 
        ---------------------------------------------------------
       |                don't forget to chant:                   |
       |                                                         |
       |  hare krishna hare krishna, krishna krishna hare hare   |
       |       hare rama hare rama, rama rama hare hare          |
       |                                                         |
       |    kalki's infoline bbs aiken, south carolina, usa      |
       |          (system@kalki33.lakes.trenton.sc.us)           |
        ---------------------------------------------------------
 