
 in article <1qvmk2$csk@morrow.stanford.edu> salem@pangea.stanford.edu (bruce salem) writes:
 >	(wouldn't it be nice if subject: lines had something to do
 >with nessage bodies!)
 
 yes.
 
 >	i wonder if the universe would look like a black hole
 >from "outside"? how could we posit an "outside", whether called
 >desitter space, hyperspace, parallel universes, whatever?
 
 i don't think that the universe would look like a black hole from
 the outside, because that would imply that similar to a black hole we
 would see stuff coming in from the "outside."
 
 >	suppose that such a space existed, and that our universe
 >looked like a black hole in it. then our universe could be open
 >to it through hawking radiation, the same way black holes are
 >within our universe. note this is all the purist speculation
 >and noone knows what laws govern qm beyond the event horizon
 >of our universe. can laws change at such boundaries of space-time?
 
 i am personally convinced that what we call our "universe" is only a
 small part of a larger system. further, i think that it is logically 
 necessary for the laws of our universe be confined to this universe
 itself.
 
 why do i believe this? it is simple; i believe that the odds against
 there being only one universe and that universe having the right conditions
 to support us are infinate. i believe that to explain our existance in
 this universe it is necessary to either consider multiple universes
 (an infinate number of them) or intelligent design. since the only
 intelligence that we know of is of a higher order than simple matter
 (the brain is made of matter) by ockham's razor i go for the first
 choice.
 
 what's more, there are a couple of books out dealing with popular
 science that use parallel universes and holographic universes (which
 is another way of saying parallel) to explain the behavior of particals
 at the quantum level. one is called parallel universes, and i think it
 is by wolf, the other the holographic universe.
 
 btw, the parallel universe approach implys an element of mind in the
 very physical reality of the universe. 
 
 >bruce salem
 >
 
 eric
 