
 in article <bskendigc5rbvn.aai@netcom.com> bskendig@netcom.com (brian kendig) writes:
 
 >and i maintain:
 >
 >some people do not want to enter into the light and the knowledge that
 >they alone are their own masters, because they fear it; they are too
 >afraid of having to face the world on their own terms.  and so, by
 >their own choice, they will remain in darkness, sort of like bugs
 >under a rock.  however, some people, but not many, will not like the
 >darkness.  sometimes it gets too cold and too dark to be comfortable.
 >these people will crawl out from under the rock, and, although blinded
 >at first, will get accustomed to the light and enjoy its warmth.  and,
 >after a while, now that they can see things for what they really are,
 >they will also see the heights which they can reach, and the places
 >they can go, and they will learn to choose their own paths through the
 >world, and they will learn from their mistakes and revel in their
 >successes.
 
 
 are you your own master?  do you have any habits that you cannot break?
 for one, you seem unable to master your lack of desire to understand
 even the slightest concept of the bible.  seems that ignorance has you
 mastered.  how about sexual sins?  gotta any of those secret desires
 in your head that you harbor but can get control of?   do you dehumanize
 women when they walk past you?  do you degrade them to a sex object in
 your head?  are you the master of that kind of thinking?  do you insult
 people unknowingly, then regret it later.  yet do it again the next
 time opportunity presents itself?  are you truly the master of yourself?
 
 i have admitted that i am not the master of my thought life at all times.
 that i sometimes say things i do want to say, and then repeat my mistake
 unwantingly.  i have admitted to myself that i cannot control every aspect
 of my being.  there are times i know i shouldn't say something, but
 then say it anyway.  there are times i simply forget a lesson.
 i, in fact, am not my own master.  i need help.  jesus promised me
 this help.  and i took him up on his offer.  i have willfully let
 jesus be my master because jesus knows what is better for me than
 i myself do.  and why not?  does not the creator know his creation
 better than the creation?  does toyota know what's better for the
 corolla than the corolla?
 
 >do you see my point?  i think you're the one under the rock, and i'm
 >getting a great tan out here in the sunlight.  my life has improved
 >immesurably since i abandoned theism -- come and join me!  it will be
 >a difficult trip at first, until you build up your muscles for the
 >long hike, but it's well worth it!
 
 then i guess ignorance is bliss for you.  because brian, you enjoy
 not having a clue about the bible.   
 
 >don't you see?  i'm not going to accept anything that i can't witness
 >with my own eyes or experience with my own senses, especially not
 >something as mega-powerful as what you're trying to get me to accept.
 >surely if you believe in it this strongly, you must have a good
 >*reason* to, don't you?
 
 
 can you witness motherly love with your senses?  how does caring and
 concern for you register with your senses?  if nothing registers
 to you other than what you can see, taste, smell, hear and touch,
 then you better become a vulcan and fast.  you better get rid
 of your emotions.
 
 and i do have a good reason to believe what i do.
 
 
 >when did i say that?  i say that i would rather cease existing instead
 >of being subject to the whims of a deity, but that if the deity
 >decided to toss me into the fiery pits because of who i am, then so be it.
 
 the topic was about my god and your lack of knowledge about what my
 god says.   my god says that you will not cease existing.  you have
 life forever.  you can choose to either live it in hell in eternal
 torment where there is no communication whatsoever, or can choose to 
 live it in paradise with god.  that is what my god says.  and that
 was the issue.  your made-up theism is what it is--made up.  it's
 wishful thinking.
  
 >nope -- most people are christian.  most people are fond of feeling
 >that they are imperfect, of believing that the world is an undesirable
 >place, of reciting magical mystical prayers to make the world nice and
 >holy again, of doing just as their priests tell them, like good little
 >sheep.  you enjoy darkness, and you're proud of it.
 
 is this the religion of kendigianism?  most people are not christian.  most
 people, including christians,  are not fond of feeling that they
 are imperfect.  is "the world an undesireable place" a doctrine
 of kendigianism?  it has nothing to do with my god.  does
 kendigism have magical mystical prayers as a part of its worship?
 mine doesn't.  does kendigianism believe that the world will be holy again?  
 mine doesn't.  does kendigianism also dictate that one must obey what the
 priest tells them like good little sheep?  mine doesn't.  is this
 a bunch of lies you tell yourself so that you can justify being 
 ignorant of the bible?
 
 brian, following christ has nothing to do with the doctrines of kendigianism.
 you would find any of your doctrines in the bible.   i don't follow kendigianism.
 i follow christ.   also, to try to again show you your ignorance
 of christ and the bible in regards to "priests",  have you not read about
 the sole melchizedek priest in hebrews 7 and 8?  have you not read what the
 purpose is of the old testament levitical priesthood and why there should
 not be priests today?  yes, guess what?  the catholics messed up.  i do
 not follow catholicism or any "ism."  i follow christ.
 
 >nope.  you make decisions, enjoy your successes, and accept your
 >failures; then you die.  if you are content with the life you've led
 >as you reflect back on it in your final moments, then you've led a
 >good life.
 
 why would you want to live a good life?
 to you, you die and that's it.  don't contradict yourself.  you have
 no reason to live a good life.  it doesn't do you any good in the
 end.  your life doesn't do anybody else any good  either because
 everyone dies anyway.  so you have no reason to lead a good life. leading
 a good life is meaningless.   why do you do such a meaningless thing?
 
 >i'm sorry, i don't feel that sacrificing jesus was something any god
 >i'd worship would do, unless the sacrifice was only temporary, in
 >which case it's not really all that important.
 
 has the resurrection sunk in?  jesus is alive.  jesus is not dead.
 jesus was sacrified to fufill the old testament sacrificial system
 in its every detail.  jesus's death was like a seed.  he needed
 to fall to the ground so that many new lives would take root.  did
 you miss the entire john passage as well?  
 
 
 >forget the bible for a minute.  forget quoting verses, forget about
 >who said what about this or that.  *show me.*  picture just you and me
 >and a wide open hilltop, and convince me that you're right.
 
 forget that i am a person.  forget that i know how to type.  forget
 that i know how to put a sentence together.  forget that i know
 how to send e-mail.   forget my existence.  proove to me that i
 exist.  .
 
 
 be honest.
 