
 from article <1993apr20.210651.5687@gn.ecn.purdue.edu>, by mechalas@gn.ecn.purdue.edu (john p. mechalas):
 >>although i'm an atheist, the events in waco have really sickened me.  it's
 >>truely a sad day for religious freedom in this country.  the branch
 >>dividians may have been nutty (my general opinion of all religious people),
 >>but tax evasion and illegal possesion of firearms are certainly not grounds
 >>for destroying a people.
 > 
 > excuse me?  who destroyed the bd's?  last i knew, they burned themselves...
 > prove to me that the fbi, atf, or the government in general either burned
 > the compound themselves, or that the bd's had no choice but to commit
 > mass suicide rather than coming out peacefully (a promise that was made
 > twice by koresh himself, which he broke both times).
 
 at this point in time we don't who destroyed the bds.  maybe it was the
 government; maybe it was koresh.  i wouldn't immediately rule out the
 government just because the fbi said that a couple of cult members
 torched koresh's wood-frame house.  i think that the credibility of the
 fbi and the cigarette cops is questionable at best; at worst they are
 bald-faced liers.  i read in a newspaper today that one of the bds that
 survived the fire said that one of the tanks that crashed through their
 wood-frame house knocked over a lantern which later on caused the
 compound to errupt in flames.  also, i have heard that one of the cult
 members who earlier said that he and another individual started the fire
 is no longer claiming that he did it.  moreover, he and possibly the
 other person may not have even really said that they did it in the
 first place---we only have the fbi's word on this.  i'll believe it when
 i hear from a cult member's own mouth and not before then.
 
 the fbi claims that they saw two cult members starting the fire.  they
 claimed that the two were clad in black clothing and were wearing gas
 masks.  hmmm...  sounds like they might have been describing an atf
 agent to me.  weren't the cigarette cops wearing black?  note:  this
 is just speculation on my part.  still, it is something to think about.
 here's something else to ponder upon:  the two agents that were planted
 in the compound might have done something to start that fire.  i don't
 know if they did it deliberately or not---if they did at all---but i
 would like to see statements from these two agents on the events that
 transpired during that day.  i think that they would be rather
 enlightening don't you think?  they were inside the compound so they
 ought to have a real good idea of what went on in there.  of course if
 they did help burn down the house then i doubt that they would be
 very forthcoming with any information.
 
 the fbi also mentioned that fire errupted in multiple locations in the
 compound.  they *may* have said this so that people might be more
 likely to be convinced that the bds started the fire.  however,
 consider that if the fbi did light-up that house would they admit to
 it?  i think not.  imagine the public outrage that would ensue if
 people discovered that the fbi killed 86 people.  obviously, the fbi
 would do its best to suppress the truth and make people think the bds
 started the fire.  fire can spread in unusual ways in a wood house---
 fires burning in more than one location in a house isn't inconsistent
 with a house fire.  the tear gas cannisters---which do produce heat
 despite what you may have been told by the media---may have contributed
 to starting the blaze.  also, it was very windy on the day of the
 fire.  flames and burning debri might have floated over to parts of
 the house that weren't already on fire.  like i said the verdict isn't
 in yet.  the fbi may very well be guilty of a holocaust.
 
 > -- 
 > john mechalas                                          "i'm not an actor, but
 > mechalas@gn.ecn.purdue.edu                                 i play one on tv."
 > aero engineering, purdue university                     #include disclaimer.h
 
 
 scott kennedy,  brewer and patriot
 
 before:  "david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
           the bible through the barrel of a gun..."  --atf spokesman
 after:   "[the atf] is a cheap thug who interprets
           [the constitution] through the barrel of a gun..."  --me
 
 