
           
 
                              the divine masters       
       
                most christians would agree, and correctly so, that 
           jesus christ was a divine master, and a projection of god 
           into the physical world, god incarnate. 
           
                but there are some very important related facts that 
           christians are completely ignorant of, as are followers of 
           most other world religions. 
            
                first, jesus christ was not unique, john 3:16 notwith-
           standing.  there is always at least one such divine master 
           (god incarnate) physically alive in this world at all times, 
           a continuous succession throughout history, both before and 
           after the life of jesus. 
     
                the followers of some of these masters founded the 
           world's major religions, usually perverting the teachings of 
           their master in the process.  christians, for example, added 
           threats of "eternal damnation" in hell, and deleted the 
           teaching of reincarnation. 
        
                secondly, and more importantly, after a particular 
           master physically dies and leaves this world, there is 
           nothing that he can do for anybody except for the relatively 
           few people that he initiated while he was still physically 
           alive.  (that is simply the way god set things up in the 
           universes.)                             
 
                therefore, all those christians who worship jesus, and 
           pray to jesus, and expect jesus to return and save them from 
           their sins, are only kidding themselves, and have allowed 
           themselves to be duped by a religion that was mostly 
           manufactured by the romans. 
       
                and emotional "feelings" are a totally deceiving 
           indicator for religious validity. 
     
                these things are similarly true for followers of most 
           other major world religions, including islam. 
      
                thirdly, the primary function of each master is to tune 
           his initiates into the "audible life stream" or "sound 
           current", (referred to as "the word" in john 1:1-5, and as 
           "the river of life" in revelation 22:1), and to personally 
           guide each of them thru the upper levels of heaven while they 
           are still connected to their living physical bodies by a 
           "silver cord". 
     
                true salvation, which completes a soul's cycles of 
           reincarnation in the physical and psychic planes, is achieved 
           only by reaching at least the "soul plane", which is five 
           levels or universes above the physical universe, and this 
           cannot be done without the help of a physically-living divine 
           master. 
     
                one such divine master alive today is an american, sri 
           harold klemp, the living "eck" master or "mahanta" for the 
           "eckankar" organization, now headquartered in minneapolis, 
           (p.o. box 27300;  zip 55427). 
     
                another divine master is maharaj gurinder singh ji, now 
           living in punjab, india, and is associated with the "sant 
           mat" organization. 
       
                one of the classic books on this subject is "the path of 
           the masters" (radha soami books, p.o. box 242, gardena, ca  
           90247), written in 1939 by dr. julian johnson, a theologian 
           and surgeon who spent the last years of his life in india 
           studying under and closely observing the sant mat master of 
           that time, maharaj sawan singh ji. 
     
                several of the eckankar books, including some authored 
           by sri paul twitchell or sri harold klemp, can be found in 
           most public and university libraries and some book stores, or 
           obtained thru inter-library loan.  the book "eckankar--the 
           key to secret worlds", by sri paul twitchell, is another 
           classic. 
     
                many christians are likely to confuse the masters with 
           the "anti-christ", which is or was to be a temporary world 
           dictator during the so-called "last days".  but the masters 
           don't ever rule, even when asked or expected to do so as 
           jesus was. 
     
                people who continue following christianity, islam, or 
           other orthodox religions with a physically-dead master, will 
           continue on their cycles of reincarnation, between the 
           psychic planes and this miserable physical world, until they 
           finally accept initiation from a physically-living divine 
           master. 
     
           
     
           re-incarnation
           
                the book "here and hereafter", by ruth montgomery, 
           describes several kinds of evidence supporting reincarnation 
           as a fact of life, including hypnotic regressions to past 
           lives [about 50% accurate; the subconscious mind sometimes 
           makes things up, especially with a bad hypnotist], 
           spontaneous recall (especially by young children, some of 
           whom can identify their most recent previous relatives, 
           homes, possessions, etc.), dream recall of past life experi-
           ences, deja vu (familiarity with a far off land while travel-
           ing there for the first time on vacation), the psychic read-
           ings of the late edgar cayce, and even supporting statements 
           from the christian bible including matthew 17:11-13 (john the 
           baptist was the reincarnation of elias.) and john 9:1-2 (how 
           can a person possibly sin before he is born, unless he lived 
           before?!).  [ always use the "king james version".  later 
           versions are per-versions! ] 
           
                strong interests, innate talents, strong phobias, etc., 
           typically originate from a person's past lives.  for example, 
           a strong fear of swimming in or traveling over water usually 
           results from having drowned at the end of a previous life.  
           and sometimes a person will take an immediate dislike to 
           another person being met for the first time in this life, 
           because of a bad encounter with him during a previous 
           incarnation. 
 
                the teaching of reincarnation also includes the law of 
           karma (galatians 6:7, revelation 13:10, etc.).  people would 
           behave much better toward each other if they knew that their 
           actions in the present will surely be reaped by them in the 
           future, or in a future incarnation! 
 
 
 
           "2nd comings"
 
                if a divine master physically dies ("translates") 
           before a particular initiate of his does, then when that 
           initiate physically dies ("translates"), the master will meet 
           him on the astral level and take him directly to the soul 
           plane.  this is the one and only correct meaning of a 2nd 
           coming.  it is an individual experience, not something that 
           happens for everyone all at once.  people who are still 
           waiting for jesus' "2nd coming" are waiting in vain. 
     
           
           
           planes of existence
 
                the physical universe is the lowest of at least a dozen 
           major levels of existence.  above the physical plane is the 
           astral plane, the causal plane, the mental plane, the etheric 
           plane (often counted as the upper part of the mental plane), 
           the soul plane, and several higher spiritual planes.  the 
           soul plane is the first true heaven, (counting upward from 
           the physical).  the planes between (but not including) the 
           physical and soul planes are called the psychic planes. 
     
                it is likely that esp, telepathy, astrological 
           influences, radionic effects, biological transmutations [see 
           the 1972 book with that title.], and other phenomena without 
           an apparent physical origin, result from interactions between 
           the psychic planes and the physical plane. 
     
                the major planes are also sub-divided.  for example, a 
           sub-plane of the astral plane is called "hades", and the 
           christian hell occupies a small part of it, created there 
           less than 2000 years ago by the early catholic church by some 
           kind of black magic or by simply teaching its existence in a 
           threatening manner.  the christian "heaven" is located 
           elsewhere on the astral plane.  good christians will go there 
           for a short while and then reincarnate back to earth. 
           
           
           
           sound current vs. blind faith
 
                the christian religion demands of its followers an 
           extraordinary amount of blind faith backed up by little more 
           than good feeling (which is totally deceiving). 
        
                if a person is not hearing some form of the "sound 
           current" ("the word", "the bani", "the audible life stream"), 
           then his cycles of reincarnation in this miserable world will 
           continue. 
     
                the "sound current" manifests differently for different 
           initiates, and can sound like a rushing wind, ocean waves on 
           the sea shore, buzzing bees, higher-pitched buzzing sound, a 
           flute, various heavenly music, or other sounds.  in eckankar, 
           members start hearing it near the end of their first year as 
           a member.  this and other experiences (such as "soul travel") 
           replace blind faith. 
     
 
 
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (3 books, 2 addresses). 
 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important information is encouraged. 
 
 
                                            robert e. mcelwaine
                                            2nd initiate in eckankar,
                                               (but not an agent thereof)
 
          
 