
 in article <1746.2bd37a66@paranet.fidonet.org> 
 bill.carlson@p0.f18.n104.z1.fidonet.org (bill carlson) writes:
 > since everywhere i look, zoroaster is suggested as being a probable
 > descendant of daniel; suppose you prove he wasn't.
 
 ref: encyclopedia of religion, mircea eliade
 
 magi: 
 
 [sneak preview: later still, eschatology and apocalyptics were a fertile meeting
  ground for iranian and judeo-christian religions, as can be seen in the famous
  _oracles of hystaspes_, a work whose iranian roots are undeniable and which
  most likely dates from the beginning of the christian era, probably the
  second century ce (widengren, 1968). the zoroastrian doctrine of the savior of
  the future (saoshyant) was the basis for the story of the coming of the magi
  to bethlehem in the _gospel of matthew_ (2:1-12).]
 
   the old persian word magu, rendered in greek by magos, is of uncertain 
 etymology. it may originally have meant "member of the tribe," as in the
 avestan compound mogu-tbish ("hostile to a member of the tribe"). this meaning
 would have been further resticted, among the medes, to "member of the priestly
 tribe" and perhaps to "priest" (benveniste, 1938; boyce, 1982). the term is
 probably of median origin, given that herodotus mentions the "magoi" as one of
 the six tribes of the medes.
   for a variety of reasons we can consider the magi to have been members of a
 priestly tribe of median origin in western iran. among the persians, they were
 responsible for liturgical functions, as well as for maintaining their
 knowledge of the holy and the occult. most likely, the supremacy of the median
 priesthood in western iran became established during the time of the median
 monarchy that dominated the persians from the end of the eighth century
 through the first half of the sixth century bce until the revolt of cyrus the
 great (550 bce). the persians were indebted to the medes for their political
 and civil institutions as well. even if hypotheses have been advanced
 concerning the existence of magi of persian origin in the achaemenid period
 (boyce, 1982), we must still maintain that they were of median origin. this is
 demonstrated by the eposide of the revolt of gaumata the magian, mentioned by
 darius i (522-486 bce) in the inscription at bisutun (iran), as well as by
 greek sources. indeed, herodotus insists on the idea of the usurpatory power of
 the medes against the persians through the conspiracy of the magi.
   the fact that the magi may have been members of a tribe that handed down the
 sacerdotal arts in a hereditary fashion naturally did not exclude the
 possibility that some of them undertook secular prefessions. this seems to be
 attested by the elamite tablets at persepolis.
   there is a theses, put forth by giuseppe messina, that denies that the magi
 are members of an ethnic group by suggesting that they are simply members of
 the priesthood - a priesthood of purely zoroastrian origin. this thesis is
 untenable; on the other hand, the hypothesis that their name is related to the
 avestan term magavan, derived from the gathic maga (vedic, magha, "gift"), is
 not without foundation (mole, 1963). the meaning of maga can probably be found,
 in conformity with the pahlavi tradition, within the context of the concept of
 purity, or separation of the "mixture" of the two opposed principles of spirit
 and matter. the maga, which has been erroneously interpreted as "chorus," from
 the root mangh, which is said to mean "sing the magic song" (nyberg, 1966) and
 has been rendered simply by an expression like unio mystica, seems to be an
 ecstatic condition that opens the mind to spiritual vision. in any case, though
 there may be a relation between the old persian term magu and the avestan terms
 magavan and maga, we must maintain a clear distinction between the magi and the
 avestan priesthood. the avesta ignores the median or old persian term, despite
 a recent hypothesis proposed by h.w. bailey; old persian inscriptions ignore
 the avestan term for "priest," athravan (vedic, athravan), even if this is 
 perhaps present in an achaeminid setting in the elamite tablets of persepolis 
 (gershevitch, 1964).
   the term magu has been present in zoroastrianism throughout its history; the
 pahlavi terms mogh-mard and mobad represent its continuation. the latter in
 particular derives from an older form, magupati ("head of the magi"). during
 the sasanid period (third to seventh centuries ce), which saw the formation of
 a hierarchically organized church, the title mobadan mobad ("the high priest of
 high priests") came to be used to designate the summit of the ecclesiastical
 hierarchy.
   the magi practiced consanguineous marriage, or khvaetvadatha (av.; pahl.,
 khwedodah). they also performed a characteristic funeral rite: the exposure of
 the corpse to animals and vultures to remove the flesh and thereby cleanse it.
 the corpse was not supposed to decompose, lest it be contaminated by the demons
 of putrefaction. this practice later became typical of the entire zoroastrian
 community and led to the rise of a complex funeral ritual in iran and among the
 parsis in india. stone towers, known as dakhmas, were built especially for this
 rite. during the time of herodotus the practice of exposure of the corpse was
 in vogue only among the magi; the persians generally sprinkled the corpse with
 wax, then buried it. the practice was widespread, however, among the peoples
 of central asia.
   the magi were the technicians of and experts on worship: it was impossible to
 offer sacrifices without the presence of a magus. during the performance of a
 ritual sacrifice, the magus sang of the theogony (the magi were possibly the
 custodians of a tradition of sacred poetry, but we know nothing about the
 relationship of this tradition to the various parts of the avesta) and was
 called upon to interpret dreams and to divine the future. the magi were also
 known for the practice of killing harmful, or "ahrimanical," animals (khrafstra)
 such as snakes and ants. they dressed in the median style, wearing pants,
 tunics, and coats with sleeves. they wore a characteristic head covering of
 felt (gr. tiara) with strips on the sides that could be used to cover the nose
 and mouth during rituals to avoid contaminating consecrated objects with their
 breath (boyce, 1982). the color of these caps, in conformity with a tradition
 that is probably of indo-european origin, according to georges dumezil, was
 that of the priesthood: white.
   in all likelihood, during the achaemenid period the magi were not in
 possession of a well-defined body of doctrine, and it is probable that they
 gradually adopted zoroastrianism; they were most likely a clergy consisting of
 professional priests who were not tied to a rigid orthodoxy but were naturally
 inclined to eclecticism and syncretism. nonetheless, they must have been
 jealous guardians of the patrimony of zorastrian traditions. by virtue of this
 they were the educators of the royal princes. the wisest of them was responsible
 for teaching the prince the "magic of zarathushtra, son of horomazes" and thus
 the "cult of the gods." magi who excelled in other virtues were entrusted with
 the education of the prince so that he would learn to be just, courageous, and
 master of himself.
   during the achaemenid period the magi maintained a position of great
 influence, although they were certainly subordinate to the emperor. despite
 several dramatic events such as the massacre they suffered after the death of
 gaumata the magian - in which, according to herodotus (who calls himself
 smerdis), the persians killed a large number of magi to avenge the usurpation -
 the magi nevertheless managed to maintain their influence at court in media,
 in persia, and in the various regions of the empire where they were stationed
 as a consequence of the persian civilian and military administration.
   no priesthood of antiquity was more famous than that of the magi. they were
 renowned as followers of zarathushtra (zoroaster); as the teachers of some of
 the greatest greek thinkers (pythagoras, democritus, plato); as the wise men
 who arrived, guided by a star, at the manger of the newborn savior in
 bethlehem; and as the propagators of a cult of the sun in india. but they were
 also known as the chaldeans, the priesthood of babylon, known for its occultism;
 this was perhaps the reason that the term magos had a pejorative sense in greek,
 like "goes," "expert in the magic arts" (bidez and cumont, 1938). indeed, the
 chaldeans were experts in all types of magical arts, especially astrology, and
 had a reputation for wisdom as well as knowledge.
   to understand the reasons for such various and sometimes discordant views, it
 is necessary to distinguish between the magi of iran proper and the so-called
 western magi, who were later hellenized. in the achaemenid period both must
 have been at least in part zoroastrian, but the western magi (those of the
 iranian diaspora in asia minor, syria, mesopotamia, and armenia), who came in
 contact with diverse religious traditions, must have, sooner or later and in
 varying degrees, been influenced by syncretic concepts.
   the greeks were familiar with both kinds of magi and, depending on their
 varying concerns, would emphasize one or the other aspect of them. classical
 historians and geographers, including herodotus and strabo, document their
 customs, while the philosophers dwell above all on their doctrines: dualism,
 belief in the hereafter, magian cosmology and cosmogony, and their theology
 and eschatology. those sources most interested in the doctrines of the magi
 even speak of zarathushtra as a magus. in doing so they are repeating what the
 magi themselves said from the median and achaemenid periods, when they adopted
 zoroastrianism. at that time they embraced zarathushtra as one of their own and
 placed themselves under his venerable name.
   zoroastrianism had already undergone several profound transformations in the
 eastern community by the time of the acheamenids and was already adapting those
 elements of the archaic religion that refused to die. it has been said quite
 often, in an attempt to characterize the precise role of the magi in the
 zoroastrian tradition, that the vendidad (from vi-daevo-data, "the law-abjuring
 daivas"), part of the avesta, should be attributed to them. (this collection of
 texts from various periods is primarily concerned with purificatory rules and
 practices.) nonetheless, the hypothesis is hardly plausible, since the first
 chapter of the vendidad - a list of sixteen lands created by ahura mazda, the
 supreme god of zoroastrianism, but contaminated by an attack by ahriman (pahl.;
 gathic-avestan, angra mainyu), the other supreme god and the ultimate source of
 all evil and suffering - does not mention western iran, persia, or media (the
 land of ragha mentioned in the text cannot be median raghiana). furthermore, it
 has been noted (gershevitch, 1964) that if the authors had been magi the
 absence of any reference to western iranian institutions, including their own
 priesthood, would be very strange.
   the magi were above all the means by which the zoroastrian tradition and the
 corpus of the avesta have been transmitted to us, from the second half of the
 first millennium bce on. this has been their principal merit. we can attribute
 directly to the magi the new formulation that iranian dualism assumed, known to
 us especially from greek sources and, in part, from the pahlavi literature of
 the ninth and tenth centuries ce. according to this formulation, the two poles
 of the dualism are no longer, as in the gathas, spenta mainyu ("beneficent
 spirit") and angra mainyu ("hostile spirit") but ahura mazda himself and angra
 mainyu (gershevitch, 1964). [see ahura mazda and angra mainyu.] this trans-
 formation was of immense consequence for the historical development of zoro-
 astrianism and was most likely determined by the contact of the magi with the
 mesopotamian religious world. in this new dualism - which was that later known
 to the greeks (aristotle, eudemus of rhodes, theopompus, and others) - we can
 see the affirmation of a new current of thought within zoroastrianism, to which
 we give the name zurvanism. [see zurvanism.]
   thanks to their adherence to zoroastrianism, the magi played an enormously
 important role in the transmission of zarathushtra's treachings, as well as in
 the definition of the new forms that these would assume historically. their
 natural propensity to eclecticism and syncretism also helped the diffusion of
 zoroastrian ideas in the communities of the iranian diaspora. the greeks began
 to study their doctrines and to take an interest in them (xanthus of lydia,
 hermodorus, aristotle, theopompus, hermippus, dinon), even writing treatises
 on the persian religion, of which only the titles and a few fragments have
 survived. in the hellenistic period, the magi were seen as a secular school of
 wisdom, and writings on magic, astrology, and alchemy were lent the authority
 of such prestigious names as zarathushtra, ostanes, and hystaspes, forming an
 abundant apocryphal literature. (bidez and cumont, 1938).
   later still, eschatology and apocalyptics were a fertile meeting
 ground for iranian and judeo-christian religions, as can be seen in the famous
 _oracles of hystaspes_, a work whose iranian roots are undeniable and which
 most likely dates from the beginning of the christian era, probably the
 second century ce (widengren, 1968). the zoroastrian doctrine of the savior of
 the future (saoshyant) was the basis for the story of the coming of the magi
 to bethlehem in the _gospel of matthew_ (2:1-12). [see saoshyant.]
   the sasanid period saw the magi once again play a determining role in the
 religious history of iran. concerned to win back the western magi (de menasce,
 1956), and eager to consolidate zoroastrianism as the national religion of
 iran, the priests of iranian sanctuaries in media and persia were able to
 establish a true state church, strongly hierarchical and endowed with an
 orthodoxy based on the formation of a canon of scriptures. the leading figures
 in the development of a state religion and of zoroastrian orthodoxy were tosar
 and kerder, the persecutors of mani in the third century.
 
 saoshyant:
   the avestan term saoshyant ("future benefactor"; mpers., soshans) designates
 the savior of the world, who will arrive at a future time to redeem humankind.
 the concept of the future savior is one of the fundamental notions of zoro-
 astrianism, together with that of dualism; it appears as early as in the gathas.
 zarathushtra (zoroaster), as the prophet of the religion, is himself a sao-
 shyant, one who performs his works for the frashokereti, the end of the present
 state of the world, when existence will be "rehabilitated" and "made splendid."
 [see frashokereti]
   later zoroastrian doctrine developed this notion into a true eschatological
 myth and expanded the number of saoshyants from one to three. all the saviors
 are born from the seed of zarathushtra, which is preserved through the ages in
 lake kansaoya (identified with present-day lake helmand, in seistan, iran),
 protected by 99,999 fravashis, or guardian spirits. the greatest of the awaited
 saoshyants, the victorious astvatereta ("he who embodies truth"), the son of
 the vispataurvairi ("she who conquers all"), is the third, who will make
 existence splendid; he appears in yashts 19. upon his arrival humankind will
 no longer be subject to old age, death, or corruption, and will be granted
 unlimited power. at that time the dead will be resurrected, and the living will
 be immortal and indestructable. brandishing the weapon with which he kills the
 powerful enemies of the world of truth (that is, the world of the spirit, and
 of asha), astvatereta will look upon the whole of corporeal existence and
 render it imperishable. he and his comrades will engage in a great battle with
 the forces of evil, which will be destroyed.
   the name astvatereta is clearly the result of theological speculation
 (kellens, 1974), as are those of his two brothers, ukhshyatereta, "he who makes
 truth grow," and ukhshyatnemah, "he who makes reverence grow"; the names of the
 three virgins (yashts 13) who are impregnated with the seed of zarathushtra
 when they bathe in lake kansaoya and give birth to the saoshyants, are equally
 speculative. each of these saoshyants will arrive at the beginning of a
 millennium, initiating a new age and a new cycle of existence; astvatereta will
 appear in the third and final millennium to save mankind.
   the doctrine of the future savior had already taken shape in the archaemenid
 period (sixth to fourth century bce). it was not, perhaps the principal element
 in the formation of the messianic idea, but it was certainly a determining
 factor, one that enjoyed great success in the hellenistic period beyond the
 confines of the iranian world. a similar concept, that of the future buddha,
 maitreya, was most likely indebted to it, and christian messianism can trace
 its roots to the same source.
 