            you can e-mail your presents (he likes rawhide chewy toys) to
             the address above.
 date: wed, 21 apr 1993 03:40:23 gmt
 lines: 73
 
 
 there were some recent developments in the dispute about masonry among
 southern baptists.  i posted a summary over in bit.listserv.christia, and
 i suppose that it might be useful here.  note that i do not necessarily
 agree or disagree with any of what follows: i present it as information.
 
  *
 
 for a short summary:  a southern baptist named larry holly wrote a book
 claiming that freemasonry is a religion incompatible with christianity.
 (mr holly's father rejects christianity, and mr holly blames that on the
 masons.)
 
 the sbc's home missions board includes an interfaith witness department,
 which studies other religions and how to teach them about christ.  a few
 years ago, they were ordered to produce a report on masonry: they concluded
 that it was not a religion, and therefore was outside their speciality.
 however, mr holly led a movement of people who oppose masonry, and
 last year the convention again ordered the hmb to study masonry.  (i got the
 feeling that they were saying "you got the wrong answer last time, try to
 do better and get the answer we want.")
 
 anyway, there's been a bit of infighting and some inappropriate actions, but
 the dust has settled and the report is in.  nobody is entirely happy with it,
 but everybody seems willing to live with it.  both sides are saying things
 such as: "this was the best we were going to get in the current environment."
 
 the report commends the masons for the charity work they do, such as the
 hospitals and burn centers they operate, as well as efforts to help the
 elderly and prevent drug abuse.  the report acknowledges that many well-
 known christians are and have been masons, and notes that many teachings
 of masonry are "supportive of christian faith and practice".  examples of
 the latter include belief in god, emphases on honesty and integrity, and
 that some masonic lodges incorporate explicit christian beliefs.
 
 on the other hand, they note that some aspects of masonry are incompatible
 with southern baptist principles.  these included the use of titles which some
 people consider sacrilegious, the taking of certain oaths (even though they
 are not meant seriously), the "undeniably pagan and/or occultic" writings of
 some masonic leaders, the implication in some masonic writings that salvation
 can be achieved by good works, and the racial discrimination practiced by many
 masonic lodges.  (i note with some chagrin that baptist churches as a whole
 aren't really in a place to speak on this last point.)
 
 
 the report concludes that masonry is not a religion, and says that membership
 should not be endorsed or censured, but left to the discretion of individuals.
 this was in part because there is variation among different masonic lodges,
 and while one may include elements strongly against christianity, another may
 not.  many southern baptists have strong convictions about the priesthood of
 the believer and the autonomy of the local church, and this history probably
 influenced how the report came out.
 
  *
 
 the information above was gleaned from "the religious herald", a publication
 of the baptist general association of virginia, and "baptists today", which
 does not have any direct links to a religious organisation.  (autonomy is a
 big issue among some baptists.  8-)
 
 because i have neither the report itself, nor whatever masonic documents are
 relevant to these issues, none of the above comes with a guarantee.  your
 mileage may vary.  void where prohibited.
 
 
 darren f provine / kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
 
 milton:  "we use only the finest baby frogs, dew picked and flown from iraq,
           cleansed in finest quality spring water, lightly killed, and then
           sealed in a succulent swiss quintuple smooth treble cream milk
           chocolate envelope and lovingly frosted with glucose."
 
 praline: "that's as may be, it's still a frog."
 