
 droplet vol 1, no 11, part 3
 
 d r o p l e t
 from the vast ocean of the miraculous qur'an
 
 translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
 bediuzzaman said nursi, the risale-i noor
 
 vol 1, no 11, part 3
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
    		 nineteenth letter  
 
 		 mu'jizat-i ahmediye risalesi 
 a treatise on the miracles of muhammed saw, part 3       
 
 (continued from droplet vol 1, no 11, part 2)
 
    third sign:  the miracles of muhammad (saw)
 are extremely varied.  because his messengership is
 universal, he has been distinguished by  miracles that
 relate to almost all species of creation.
     just as the supreme aide of a renowned ruler, arriving
 with many gifts in a city where various people live, will be
 welcomed by a representative of each people who
 acclaims him and bids him welcome in his own language
 so, too, when the supreme messenger of the monarch of
 pre- and  post-eternity  (ezel and ebed  sultani) honored the
 universe by coming as an envoy to the inhabitants of the
 earth, and brought with him the light of truth and spiritual
 gifts sent by the creator of the universe and derived from
 the realities of the whole universe, each species of
 creation -from water, rocks, trees, animals and human
 beings to the moon, sun and stars- welcomed him and
 acclaimed his prophethood, each in its own language, and
 each bearing one of his miracles.
     now it would require a voluminous work to mention all
 his miracles.  as the punctilious scholars have written
 many volumes concerning the proofs of his prophethood,
 here we will briefly point out only the general category
 into which fall fhe miracles that are definite and accepted
 as accurate reports.
     the evidences of the prophethood of muhammad
 (saw) fall into two main categories:  
 
     the first is called irhasat and includes the paranormal 
 events that happened at the time of his birth, or before his 
 declaration of prophethood.  
 
     the second group pertains to all the remaining evidences 
 of the prophethood, and contains two subdivisions: 
 
     1) those wonders that were manifested after
 his departure from this world in order to confirm his
 prophethood, and 
 	2) those that he exhibited during the era
 of his prophethood.  the latter has also two parts:  
 	2.1) the evidences of his prophethood that became manifest
 in his own personality, his inner and outer being, his moral
 conduct and perfection, and 
     2.2) the miracles that: related to substantial matters.  
 the last part again has two branches:  
 	2.2.1) those concerning the qur'an and spirituality, and 
 	2.2.2) those relating to matter and creation.  this last 
 branch is again divided into two categories:  
 	2.2.2.1) the first involves the paranormal happenings 
 that occured during his mission either to break the 
 stubbornness of the unbelievers, or to augment the
 faith of the belivers.  this category has twenty different
 sorts, such as the splitting of the moon, the flowing of
 water from the fingers, the satisfying of large numbers with
 a little food, and the speaking of trees, rocks and animals
 each of these sons has also many instances, and thus
 has, in meaning, the strength of confirmation by
 consensus.  
 	2.2.2.2)  as for the second category, this
 includes events lying in the future that occured as he had
 predicted upon allah (swt)'s instructions.  now starting
 from the last category, we will summarize a list of them.(1)
 
 (1) unfonunately, i could not write as i had intended
 without choice, i wrote as my head dictated, and i could
 not completely conform to the order of this classification.
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 to be continued allah willing.
 irfan alan, a servant of islam.
 
 