
 dear rob,
 
 >when i read brian k.'s postings, i find someone who is honestly seeking
 >the truth.  when i read your response here, i see condescension.  when you
 >reply to a post, reply to the post you quote.  this statement undermines
 >any good points you might have had (it was enough to make me stop reading).
 
 sometimes i do come across condesending, and i am sorry i come across that
 way at times.  thank you for the reproach, i really do appreciate it.  i'll
 try to get better.
 
 rob, at the same time, i have also learned that some people respond to the gentle
 approach while others respond only at a harsh rebuke.  brian k., so far,
 only responds to the latter.  and i am glad he responds at all.   in both
 cases of approach,  my intention is to be loving.  i am making no excuse
 for myself if i am coming across condesending.  i apologize for that.
 
 rob, sometimes brian k. comes across as honest. i know this.  but brian k. 
 vasillates back and forth.  one post looks honest; the next is
 an excuse.  now he wants me to explain the universe in 50 words or less.  
 i think brian kendig is really trying but he is too comfortable with
 his set of excuses.  
 
 i just want brian k. to be honest with himself.  if he really wants
 to know, he will ask questions and stop asserting irrelevant excuses
 which have nothing to do with my god.   i wish brian would read the
 bible for himself and come to his own decisions without being
 sidetracked with the temptation to mock god.
 
 from my perspective rob, when i look at brian kendig, i see a man
 standing out in the middle of a highway.  off into the distance i 
 see a mack truck heading right for him, but brian k. is faced away
 from the oncoming truck.  he doesn't see it.   here's is how i see
 the dialog:
 
 
 me:  "brian k, please step aside before you get run over." 
 
 bk:  "there is no truck."
 
 me:  "turn around at look."
 
 bk:  "no."
 
 me:  "look!  you will be healthier if you do take a look at
      the oncoming truck."
 
 bk:  "no. explain to me why trucks exist."
 
 me:  "turn around or you will run over."
 
 bk:  "no. i won't because i like hiking and tomorrow is tuesday."
 
 me:  "you blind fool!  why do you choose ignorance? you have nothing
       to lose if you look.  but if do not look, you will certainly lose your life."
       i do not want to see you squashed all over the road.
 
 bk:  "it is my life to lose.  i rather not look.
       besides, a truck running over me will not harm me."
       and by the way, i really have an open mind."
 
 
 so is my motivation to belittle brian, or to love brian the best i know how?   
 
 i do not wish to single brian kendig out.  because millions if not
 billions of people fall into the same category.  perhaps all people
 fall have fallen into this category at one time in their lives.  i have.
 i can now see the truck behind brian.
 
 my hope is that brian will look and will see the ramifications of the
 truck coming towards him.  my hope is that brian will want to step out
 of the way.  my fear, though,  is that brian will instead choose to glue himself
 to the middle of the highway, where he will certainly get run over.  but if
 he so chooses, he so chooses, and there is nothing i can do beyond that
 to change his mind.   for it is his choice.   but at this very moment,
 brian hasn't gotten even that far.  he is still at the point where he
 does not want to look.  sure he moves his eyeball to appease me, but his
 head will not turn around to see the entire picture.  so far he is
 satisfied with his glimpse of the mountains off in the distance. 
 
 thank you again rob for your reproach.  i really do appreciate it.  (my
 wife tells me the same thing at times.)   :-)   i will try to do better.
 