
 i responded to jim's other articles today, but i see that i neglected
 to respond to this one.  i wouldn't want him to think me a hypocrite
 for not responding to *every* stupid article on t.r.m.
 
 m23364@mwunix.mitre.org (james meritt) writes:
 >from my handy dictionary:
 [dictionary definitions of "not" "disagree" and "agree" deleted]
 >please operationally differentiate between "not disagree" and "agree".
 
 oh, but i'm weary of trying to wade through jim's repertoire of 
 red herrings and smoke screens.
 
 let's see what we get when we run all four articles posted by jim today
 through the 'discord' filter (a markov chain program that steve lamont
 was kind enough to send me):
 
 	taking action? a white geese be held
 	as an accomplice to be held as
 	a decision upon the door
 	a black and white goose waddles past
 	the eyes of the door. 
 	hits it with the confidence interval for 
 	that individual is held responsible 
 	for that, that individual 
 	may be held as a 
 	getaway car may be held 
 	as an uncountably large number 
 	of the driver of something 
 	and agree.
 
 	a black goose 
 	waddles past the person imprisoned?
 
 	white goose waddles past the 
 	confidence interval for the population 
 	of geese be axed, 
 	fine.
 	and white goose 
 	waddles past the door.
 
 does running jim's articles through 'discord' make them more
 coherent?  less coherent?
 
 or has 'discord' turned jim's articles into an angst-ridden poem
 about making choices in a world filled with uncertainty, yet being
 held responsible for the choices we make?  do the geese symbolize
 an inner frustration with ambiguity, a desire that everything be
 black and white, with no shades of gray?  does the "getaway car"
 tell us that to try to renounce the existential nature of our
 being is not to "get away" from responsibility for our actions,
 but rather to take the role of the passive accomplice, the
 "driver" of the getaway car, as it were?  does the juxtaposition
 of man and machine, car and driver, reveal a subtext: an internal
 conflict between determinism and moral responsibility?
 
 or am i reading too much into a collaboration between jim and
 a random number generator?
 
 dj
 