
 here is someones "biblical" claim for the characteristics of satan:
 
 >this is probably the portion of scripture that you were talking about, isaiah 14:12-15.
 >this does speak of the "morning star" which, according to you is the
 >babylonian prince.  ok, so i turn your attention to daniel 10:12-14.  this passage
 >concerns a revelation of prophecy to daniel by the messenger from god.  within
 >this passage, the messenger from god speaks of how he fought for 3 weeks 
 >against the prince of the persian kingdom.  obviously, this prince was not an earthly
 >prince.  this prince of the persian kingdom is probably one of the demons
 >in satan's hierarchy.  as such, the morning star can be the prince of babylon w
 >ho can also be satan.  another passage concerning satan's fall from heaven is 
 >ezekiel 28:12-19.
 
 and separately:
 
 >devil chose to try to become greater than god.
 >he wanted to sit on god's throne.
 >when the devil was created, he was one of the most beautiful angels in heaven.
 
 we have here three distinct claims concerning the results of the devil's
 decision making, a specific desire, and a physical description.  now, in
 support (aside from the minor detail that an author seldom writes an unbiased
 account of the opposition) we see:
 
 >isaiah 14:12-15
 
 isa 14:12  how art thou fallen from heaven, o lucifer, son of the
 morning!  how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken
 the nations!
 
 isa 14:13  for thou hast said in thine heart, i will ascend  into
                                               --------------------
 heaven, i will exalt my throne above the stars of god: i will sit
 -----------------------------------------------------
 also upon the mount of the congregation,  in  the  sides  of the north:
 
 isa 14:14  i will ascend above the heights of the clouds; i  will
 be like the most high.
 
 isa 14:15  yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to  the  sides
 of the pit.
 
 
 doesn't say sits on god's throne.  says will exhault throne above the stars.
 
 >daniel 10:12-14
 
 dan 10:12  then said he unto me, fear not, daniel: for  from the
 first  day  that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to
 chasten thyself before thy god, thy words were heard,  and  i am
 come for thy words.
 
 dan 10:13  but the prince of the kingdom of persia  withstood me
                     ------------------------------
 one  and twenty days: but, lo, michael, one of the chief princes,
                                         ------------------------
 came to help me; and i remained there with the kings of persia.
 
 dan 10:14  now i am come to make thee understand what  shall be-
 fall  thy  people  in  the latter days: for yet the vision is for
 many days.
 
 
 see who is being discussed?
 
 
 >ezekiel 28:12-19
 
 eze 28:12  son of man, take up a lamentation  upon  the  king of
                                                      -----------
 tyrus, and say unto him, thus saith the lord god; thou sealest up
 -----
 the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.
 
 eze 28:13  thou hast been in eden the garden of god;  every  pre-
 cious  stone  was  thy covering, the sardius, topaz, and the dia-
 mond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the em-
 erald,  and  the  carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of thy ta-
 brets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that  thou
 wast created.
 
 eze 28:14  thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and i have
 set  thee  so: thou wast upon the holy mountain of god; thou hast
 walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.
 
 eze 28:15  thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day  that  thou
 wast created, till iniquity was found in thee.
 
 eze 28:16  by the multitude of thy merchandise they  have  filled
 the  midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore
 i will cast thee as profane out of the mountain  of  god:  and  i
 will  destroy  thee,  o  covering  cherub,  from the midst of the
 stones of fire.
 
 eze 28:17  thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty,  thou
 hast  corrupted  thy  wisdom  by reason of thy brightness: i will
 cast thee to the ground, i will lay thee before kings, that  they
 may behold thee.
 
 eze 28:18  thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of
 thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will
 i bring forth a fire from the midst  of  thee,  it  shall  devour
 thee,  and i will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight
 of all them that behold thee.
 
 eze 28:19  all they that know thee among the people shall be as-
 tonished at thee: thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be
 any more.
 
 
 
 anyone else to make a claim about the characteristics of the devil?
 
 