
 this discussion on "objective" seems to be falling into solipsism (eg: the
 recent challenge from frank dwyer, for someone to prove that he can actually
 observe phenomena).  someones even made the statement that science is
 "subjective" and that even atom are "subjective." this is getting a bit silly
 and the word "objective" is losing all meaning.  lets start by remembering the
 definition of "objective" which has been already presented:
 
   objective adj. 1. of or having to do with a material object as 
     distinguished from a mental concept. 2. having actual existence.
     3.a. unenfluenced by emotion or personal prejudice. b. based on
     observable phenomenon.
 
 the objectivity of a thing is not based on whether everyone agrees on that
 thing (eg: the world is objectively round, regardless of the fact that there
 exist flat earthers), but rather whether it is based observable and verifiable
 phenomenon (instead of being based solely on peoples wishes, feeling, mental
 processes, etc).  thus atoms, being based on very observable and repeatable
 phenomenon, are indeed considered to be objective rather than subjective. 
 even weird, high energy physics is based on observable phenomenon (even though
 that observation can change the outcome).  nor are those observable phenomenon
 affected by emotion, or personal prejudice (eg: chemical reactions do not
 change to the whims of different people).  thus to say that science is not
 objective (ie: objectively verifiable) is a bit silly, as that is the
 point of science.  now i will agree that science is not objectively "good;" i
 will not thereby conclude though that science is not objective. 
 
 now some examples things which are "objective":  a d-12 tractor is larger
 than the average breadbox.  chlorophyll is green.  seawater contains salt.
 there exists ozone in the atmosphere (at least presently).  ozone blocks 
 ultraviolet light.  ultraviolet light increases the incidents of skin cancer.
 
 "good" on the other hand is a value judgement.  it doesn't seem to have an
 existence apart from what we give it (unless someone can objectively show the
 existence of an omnipotent entity which has defined "good").  we cannot
 quantify it, touch it or collect it in any concrete sense (eg: i have a bag
 full of "good").  now we do sometimes attempt to give the word "good" an
 objective meaning, e.g.  "good" has been used to denote strength, resiliency,
 speed, etc.  that though, is a subjective definition, as some might not see
 "strength" and etc, as necessarily "good" (eg: strength inspired by naziism 
 is not generally viewed as "good"). 
 
 as to a morality, i cannot say that i have ever seen a morality strictly based
 on verifiable observable phenomenon.  the closest i have seen is some form of
 the "golden rule," which concludes that it is best not to deliberately piss
 people off, as they will likely then involve themselves in your life, in a
 manner you won't like.  this is verifiable; when you "get in someone's face,"
 they will often retaliate.  another objective fact about morality is that a
 more powerful group can enforce their morality on a weaker group, and thus can
 at times, ignore that form of the "golden rule" without fear of reprisal.  now
 as to whether this enforcing of morality is "good" or "bad," is quite
 subjective.  by the way, remember that subjective does not mean that a thing
 cannot be formally stated, or even commonly agreed upon; it only means that
 that it is not verifiable from observable phenomena, or has a physical
 existence unto itself.  also note that i have not stated that there is no such
 thing as an objective morality, or that i could not accept any such a
 morality; i have simply stated that i have seen no evidence of any such
 morality. 
 
 one other thing to notice, "objective" is many times used as synonymous with
 "true" and/or "absolute," and "subjective" sometimes has the connotation of
 "false" and/or "relative." tain't necessarily so.  for instance, when a
 conclusion is based on objective, but insufficient evidence, then it can be
 both objective and false.  as to "absolute," it is easy to note that while we
 can objectively show that tnt is explosive, but that does not absolutely mean
 that all tnt will explode, and thus objective is not necessarily absolute
 either.  on the other hand, something subjective can also be either
 "absolutist," or "true." for instance, there are some theists who are
 specifically "absolutist" in their morality, even though they have only
 subjective evidence to back it up.  further, many a scientist and detective
 has been motivated by subjective reasons (eg: a "gut feeling" or "hunch"), to
 investigate a phenomena or situation, and gather the objective evidence
 necessary to support a true hypothesis.  on the whole though, i would have to
 agree that objective evidence is much more trustworthy than subjective
 evidence.
  
 				later,
 
 				dave butler
 
     in starting any thesis, it seems to me, one should put forward as one's
     point of departure something incontrovertible; the expression should be
     simple and dignified.
 				diogenes
 