
 i wrote: 
 
 > my hope is that brian k. will look and will see the ramifications of the
 > truck coming towards him.  my hope is that brian will want to step out
 > of the way.  my fear, though,  is that brian will instead choose to glue himself
 > to the middle of the highway, where he will certainly get run over.  but if
 > he so chooses, he so chooses, and there is nothing i can do beyond that
 > to change his mind.   for it is his choice.   but at this very moment,
 > brian hasn't gotten even that far.  he is still at the point where he
 > does not want to look.  sure he moves his eyeball to appease me, but his
 > head will not turn around to see the entire picture.  so far he is
 > satisfied with his glimpse of the mountains off in the distance. 
 
 
 kent sandvik writes:
 
 >the problem is that you imagine him inside this huge wall, unable
 >to see reality. while he imagines the same about you. clearly we
 >have a case where relativity plays a big role concerning looking
 >at opposite frames of reality.
 
 kent, with regards to the information contained in the bible (which
 is the original context of this thread), brian kendig is inside a huge
 wall.  brian *is* inside.  the bible and the information contained therein
 are outside the wall.   brian kendig proves this very sad fact by the
 absurd things he says.  for example, "if i get through into the firey
 pit, i will cease to exist."  the bible doesn't say that.  he hasn't
 a clue even to what jesus said about hell.  that is but one example.
 
 now in your sense, kent, of sensing reality--that is a different
 matter.  and to you and to brian, relativity does play a big role.
 what we perceive to be true, depends on our vantage point.  since i
 have read the bible, and brian kendig shows that he hasn't, he has 
 a narrower perspective than mine  (at least in the respect
 of knowledge of the bible).   i am proposing to brian, "brian, come up here
 and take a look from this vantage point."   but brian replies, "i rather
 not thank you.  i am content where i am.  besides, the vista from up
 there stinks."   and in the meanwhile, brian ignores the facts that
 he has never up there nor does he realize i had shared the same
 plateau where brian now stands.
 