
 -*----
 in article <c5ztju.fkx@news.cso.uiuc.edu> cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb) writes:
 > why is the nt tossed out as info on jesus.  i realize it is 
 > normally tossed out because it contains miracles, but what
 > are the other reasons?
 
 far from being "tossed out," the gospels are taken, almost
 universally, as the primary source of information about jesus.
 i am curious as to whom mike cobb is referring.  who "tosses out"
 the new testament?  undoubtedly a few *naive* atheists do this,
 but the phrasing of the question above seems to suggest that cobb
 ascribes this more broadly.
 
 perhaps the question that gets more to the heart of the matter is
 why, except for some *naive* believers (who, unfortunately, far
 outnumber nonbelievers, both naive and critical), are the gospels
 *not* taken as "gospel truth" that faithfully records just what
 happened two thousand years ago?  this has an easy answer, and
 the answer has *nothing* to do with miracles: no text is taken
 this way by a critical reader.
 
 there is a myth among some naive believers that one takes a text,
 measures it by some set of criteria, and then either confirms the
 text as "historically valid" or "tosses out" the text.  i suspect
 this myth comes from the way history is presented in primary and
 secondary school, where certain texts are vested with authority,
 and from writers such as josh mcdowell who pretend to present
 historical arguments along these lines for their religious
 program.  in fact, most texts used in primary and secondary
 school history classes ought to be tossed out, even the better
 such texts should not be treated as authoritatively as descibed
 above, and josh mcdowell would not know a historical argument if
 it bit him on the keister twice.
 
 let me present the barest outlines of a different view of texts
 and their use in studying history.  first, all texts are
 historically valid.  all texts.  or to put this another way, i
 have never seen a notion of "historical validity" that makes any
 sense when applied to a text.  second, no text should be read as
 telling the "gospel truth" about historical events, in the way
 that many students are wont to read history texts in primary and
 secondary school.  no text.  (this includes your favorite
 author's history of whatever.)
 
 every text is a historical fact.  every text was written by some
 person (or some group of people) for some purpose.  hence, every
 text can serve as historical evidence.  the question is: what can
 we learn from a text?  of what interesting things (if any) does
 the text provide evidence?
 
 the diaries of the followers of the maharishi, formerly of
 oregon, are historical evidence.  the gospels are historical
 evidence.  the letters of the officers who participated in the 
 vampire inquests in eastern europe are historical evidence.  the
 modern american history textbooks that whitewash "great american
 figures" are historical evidence.  these are all historical
 evidence of various things.  they are *not* much evidence at all
 that the maharishi, formerly of oregon, could levitate; that
 jesus was resurrected; that vampires exist; or that "great
 american figures" are as squeaky clean as we learned in school.
 they are better evidence that some people "saw" the maharishi,
 late of oregon, levitate; that some of the early christians
 thought jesus was resurrected; that many people in eastern europe
 "saw" vampires return from the grave; and that we still have an
 educational system that largely prefers to spread myth rather
 than teach history.
 
 how does one draw causal connections and infer what a piece of
 historical evidence -- text or otherwise -- evinces?  this is a
 very complex question that has no easily summarized answer.
 there are many books on the subject or various parts of the
 subject.  i enjoy david hackett fischer's "historian's fallacies"
 as a good antidote to the uncritical way in which it is so easy
 to read texts present history.  it's relatively cheap.  it's easy
 to read.  give it a try.
 
 russell
 
 