
 in article <1993apr21.182030.888@batman.bmd.trw.com> jbrown@batman.bmd.trw.com writes:
 > the default condition, in the absence of a preponderance of
 >evidence either way, is that the proposition or assertion is undecidable.
 >and the person who takes the undecidable position and says that he/she
 >simply disbelieves that the proposition is true, is the only one who
 >holds no burden of proof.  this is why the so-called "weak atheist"
 >position is virtually unassailable -- not because it stands on a firm
 >foundation of logical argument, but because it's proponents simply
 >disbelieve in the existence of god(s) and therefore they hold no burden
 >of proof.  when you don't assert anything, you don't have to prove
 >anything.  that's where weak atheism draws its strength.  but its
 >strength is also its achilles' heel.  without assertions/axioms, one
 >has no foundation upon which to build.  as a philosophy, it's virtually
 >worthless.  imo, of course.
 
 yes, as a philosophy weak atheism is worthless.  this is true in
 exactly the same sense that as a philosophy christians' disbelief in
 zeus is worthless.  atheists construct their personal philosophies
 from many different sources, building non-god-based ideas in the same
 way as christians build non-zeus-based ideas of thunderbolts.
 atheists no more *base* their philosophy on atheism than christians
 base theirs on the nonexistence of zeus.
 
 the "weak atheist" position is logically extremely assailable -- any
 logical demonstration of the existence of a god completely destroys it
 as soon as the demonstration is made in the presence of a given weak
 atheist.  atheists in this newsgroup are barraged regularly with
 attempts to provide such a logical demonstration, and they all fail
 miserably.  in fact, most of the people around here who claim the
 "strong (as opposed to mathematical) atheist" position do so on this
 basis: not only do we not believe in a god, but also all the arguments
 presented in favor of particular gods have to date proven unsound;
 therefore, one can say that those gods as argued by those arguments do
 not exist.  this doesn't apply to such philosophers' gods as are
 defined to be logically undemonstrable, but these are not the gods of
 popular religion, and the coherence of such claims is quite
 questionable. 
 -- 
 jim perry   perry@dsinc.com   decision support, inc., matthews nc
 these are my opinions.  for a nominal fee, they can be yours.
 