
 jesus:
 
 >     "this is the verdict:  light has come into the world, but
 >     men loved darkness instead of light because their deeds
 >     are evil.  everyone who does evil hates the light, and will
 >     not come into the light for fear that his deeds will be 
 >     exposed."
 
 kent sandvik says:
 
 >it seems we are dealing with a black-and-white interpretation.
 >brian, are you subtly accusing me of evil things because i never
 >saw the light? however, this is even more confusing because
 >i even admit that i don't like the situation where i'm not 
 >informed.
 
 black and white.  a spade is a spade.  there is no hidden
 agenda behind this, so stop trying to look for one.   it is an
 easy and as straight forward as it reads.
 
 kent, i am not accusing you of evil things.  jesus is accusing you.
 and it is not only you that he is accusing.  he is accusing everyone.
 me, you and everyone in the world is guilty.  whether one
 sees the light or does not seen the light has nothing to do with 
 whether we do evil things.  we do them regardless.  
 
 jesus uses the word "men".  i am included.  jesus is not soloing you out.
 jesus is making a general statement about out the sad state of man.
 christians are not immuned from doing evil things.  a christian 
 is just a person in whom the holy spirit indwells.  a christian 
 can see the evil he is doing--because his evil has been brought
 out into the light.  jesus is not saying that just because evil has been
 exposed, that the christian will stop doing evil.  if you haven't
 seen jesus's light, your evil deeds simply haven't been
 exposed to the his light.  you may shed some light on your
 own.  your human spirit shines at perhaps 1 candela.  but the
 holy spirit shines at a megacandela.  the holy spirit can
 shine light into places inside us where we didn't even know
 existed. 
 
 so do you see jesus's point?  christians are not perfect.  nonchristians
 are not perfect.  nonchristians do not want to come into the
 light of jesus because they will see all the problems in their lives,
 and they will not like the sight.  it is an ugly thing to see how far
 we have fallen from jesus's perspective.  do you think you want to
 know how really ignorant you are?  do you think brian kendig wants
 to know?  do you think i want to know?  ego verses the truth,
 which do you choose?
 
 >i'm watching the news about a man who saw the light, and made
 >sure that the 19 children burned to death as part of his insight
 >into the light. i don't think the world is that simple. and if 
 >you act in such ways when you are enlighted, then i'm a happy
 >man and i pray i will never receive such 'light'.
 
 and i watched koresh too, an imposter who thought he saw the light, 
 who made sure that the 19 children burned to death, sadly, as part
 of his delusion.  it is even sadder that the people who
 died with him chose to die with them, and that ignorance was
 their downfall to death. 
 
 and kent, don't you bury yourself underneath a rock with an
 excuse like bringing up koresh--as if koresh actually had truth in him.
 david koresh was no light and no excuse for
 you to stay away from the real jesus christ.  david koresh, who
 claimed to be jesus, was a fraud.  it was obvious.  david koresh
 was born in america. jesus was born in bethlehem.  koresh wasn't
 even a good imposter having missed an obvious point as that.
 
 jesus warned of such imposters in the end-times.  david
 koresh wasn't anything new to jesus.  jesus told us to be
 aware of imposters 2000 years ago.  
 
 so the next time an imposter makes a scene and claims to
 be jesus.  ask the obvious.  where were you born?  was your
 mother's name mary?  if the branch davidians asked that
 simple question, they would have labeled koresh a liar
 right from the start.  the wouldn't have followed koresh.
 they wouldn't have died.  but look what happened.  their
 ignorance cost them their lives.  their choice to be ignorant
 cost them a lot.
 
 kent, since you studied the bible under lutheranism, do you
 not remember what tactic satan used to try to tempt jesus?  
 did not satan quote the bible out of context?  do you
 remember what tactic the serpent of genesis used to tempt
 eve?  did he not misquote god?  what satan used on eve and succeeded, 
 was the same ploy he tried on jesus.  but in jesus's case,
 jesus rebuked satan back with the bible _in_ context.  it
 didn't work with jesus.  
 
 does what satan did to eve in the garden and what satan
 tried to do with jesus in the desert remind you of what
 koresh did to his followers?  who did koresh emulate?
 who was koresh's teacher?  koresh did to his followers what
 satan did to eve.  did not koresh kill his followersr?  did
 not satan cause adam and eve to die as well?  did not
 the cult followers believe koresh even though they knew
 the real christ was born in bethlehem?   did not eve
 choose to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and
 evil despite knowing that it would cause her death?  god
 held them all responsible--deceiver and the rebeller.  none 
 of them had an excuse.  
 
 as opposed to the branch davidians, we have a second chance.
 follow jesus and he will escort us to the path of eternal life.
 don't follow jesus, and you stand condemned already, for like
 the branch davidian complex, your house is already on fire.
 satan, adam and eve have already set it ablaze.   it is just
 a slow burn, but it is burning nevertheless.
 