
 
                      welcome to the peace run
 
                      you're invited to join in
                      a global relay run... and
                      help light the way.
 
 
 
                      ----  why the peace run  ----
 
 there's a new spirit in the nineties: a spirit of oneness, a growing
 belief in the possibility of true global peace.
 
 the goal of the sri chinmoy oneness-home peace run is simple: to
 bring this spirit forward in a concrete way, to transform it into
 a reality in their own lives.
 
 every other year, thousands of men, women and children from more
 than 70 nations - passing a flaming peace torch from hand to hand -
 join together in a relay run that virtually circles the globe.
 transcending political and cultural boundaries, they go from
 nation to nation - across mountains, jungles and deserts - carrying
 the message of brotherhood to all humankind.
 
 each person who holds or runs with the peace torch lights a path
 for those who follow. each time the peace torch changes hands, the
 flame of oneness burns a little brighter - until one day it will
 shine in the hearts and minds of every individual on earth.
 
 
 		    ----  making history  ----
 
 the three peace runs since 1987 have achieved some historic break-
 throughs: in the middle east, a landmark run crossed the egyptian-
 israeli border; in europe, a precedent-setting run linked eastern
 and western europe with russia; in the united states, mexico and
 canada, entire cities were dedicated to the cause of world peace;
 and in poland, the peace torch was blessed by pope john paul ii.
 
 
 		 ----  speaking as one: world  ----
              ----  leaders, celebrities - and you  ----
 
 the peace run has won the support of leaders the world over -
 presidents, prime ministers, religious leaders, sports figures and
 entertainment personalities.
 
 its message has spread to a half billion people though newspaper
 reports, magazine articles and radio and tv broadcasts, including
 specials on pbs, mtv and nbc's today show.
 
 > "i am happy to support your peace run for justice, peace and
 reconciliation. the world must know that god wants us to live
 amicably as brothers and sisters, members of one family, the human
 family, god's family."  - archbishop desmond tutu,
 			  nobel peace prize winner
 
 
 		   ----  how it all works  ----
 
 peace run 1993 started with a five-borrough relay in new york
 city on saturday april 17, converging at various points to lead
 up to the opening ceremony outside the united nations dag
 hammarskjold building. there, runners from around the world
 were gathered for the fourth lighting of the peace torch.
 
 from there, peace torches are now being transported to over
 seventy countries for a series of concurrent international or
 cross-country relay runs including the united states, canada,
 japan, australia, russia and eastern and western europe. smaller
 runs will take place in the philippines, mexico, israel, south
 america, egypt and elsewhere in africa. distance to be covered:
 31,000 miles.
 
 >"the peace run wil do much to inspire the hearts and stimulate
 the minds of those who support, participate in, witness, or hear
 about the event."  - carl lewis,
                      six-time olympic gold medalist
 
 
                   ----  who's behind it  ----
 
 the peace run is sponsored by the sri chinmoy marathon team, an
 international running organization that believes sports can be a
 powerful instrument for promoting world peace. each year the team
 puts on hundreds of athletic events, including several world-class
 ultramarathons, marathons and triathlons, in dozens of countries.
 
 the peace run itself is inspired by the global peace ambassador
 sri chinmoy, who has written and lectured extensively on peace,
 offered hundreds of free peace concerts and met with countless
 world figures to advance the cause of international harmony.
 
 the run is managed by peace runs international, a non-profit
 organization based in the united states.
 
 
                ----  take a step for peace  ----
 
 the peace runs in 1987, 1989 and 1991 attracted nearly half a
 million participants. we're expecting even more people to join
 peace run '93.
 
 you can also join the run - carrying the peace torch a few steps,
 a few blocks or a few miles. or you can come out and cheer the
 runners as they carry the torch through your community.
 
 you can also join local celebrities and government officials in
 one of the thousands of welcoming ceremonies scheduled along the
 70-nation route.
 
 your inner support is important too. if you're a runner, each time
 you go out, you can dedicate your run to the cause of world peace.
 
 
 		 ----  the next step is yours  ----
 		 ----  make it one for peace  ----
 
 
 for information contact:
 peace runs international
 161-44 normal road
 jamaica, ny 11432 usa
 tel. 718/291-6637  fax: 718/291-6978
 
 peace run canada
 2456 agricola street
 halifax, nova scotia  b3k 4c2
 tel. 902/425-1174  fax: 902/420-0773
 
 or for the phone number or address of
 a peace run office in your town or country,
 reply to this message by e-mail.
 