
 
 there has been a lot of discussion about tyre.  in sum, ezekiel prophesied
 that the place would be mashed and never rebuilt; as there are a lot of
 people living there, it would appear that ezekiel was not literally correct.
 
 this doesn't bother me at all, because i understand the language ezekiel used
 differently than do so-called biblical literalists.  for example, it sometimes
 happens that someone says "my grandson is the cutest baby!" and then turns
 around and sees the granddaughter and says "oh!  isn't she the cutest thing!?"
 
 this person is not literally claiming to have lined up all the babies in the
 world according to cuteness and discovered his own grandchildren tied for
 first.  rather, he is trying to express his emotions using words that are very
 object-oriented.  because this example is one that is common to many people,
 nobody misunderstands the intent of the statements; the bible, however, is
 often at the mercy of people who assume that everything within must be exactly
 literally true.  for those people, the existence of tyre is a problem; for me,
 it is not.
 
 
 turning to the latest person trying to defend ezekiel, we read this from
 john e king:
 
 > the prophesy clearly implies that people would still be living in the
 > area[.]
 
 no, it implies nothing of the kind.  if you had nothing but the prophecy from
 ezekiel, and you were told you interpret it literally, you would never say
 "oh, he means that there will be houses and businesses and plants and stuff
 like that."  you would read "i will make you a bare rock" and "you will never
 be rebuilt", and you'd conclude that tyre would be a bare rock.  the only way
 to get from `fishing nets' to `houses and buildings and a medium-large
 population' is if you know that all that latter stuff is there.
 
 in other words, your answer means that ezekiel misled everybody who read the
 prophecy at the time it was written.  there is no way that, given a literal
 reading, they could read this passage and conclude "medium-size city".
 
 you seem to feel that "never be rebuilt" means "be rebuilt" -- maybe so, but
 it is hardly a `clear implication'.
 
 
 mr king also writes:
 
 > so far i've seen stated figurers ranging from 15,000 to 22,000.
 > let's assume the latter one is correct.  by modern standards
 > we are talking about a one-horse town.
 
 well, no.  that's only a bit less than the population of annapolis, where i'm
 from.  you know, the naval acadamy, the state capital, george washington
 resigned his commission in the statehouse?  annapolis may not be new york, but
 it's at least a two-horse town.
 
 but supposing 22,000 people is a "small town" -- it's still 22,000 people
 more than ezekiel predicted.
 
 
 and you've said nothing about the other problem.  in chapter 26, ezekiel
 predicts that nebuchadnezzar will will destroy tyre and loot all their
 valuables.  however, nebuchadnezzar did not destroy tyre, and in chapter 29
 ezekiel even quotes god as saying "he and his army got no reward from the
 campaign he led against tyre."
 
 let's ignore alexander for a moment, and just pay attention to chapter 26.
 ezekiel says n. would destroy tyre, and n. did not destroy tyre.  ezekiel says
 that n. would plunder their valuables, but n. did not plunder their valuables.
 
 regardless of what you think about tyre _now_, the fact is that n. died before
 the place was destroyed.  ezekiel said n. was going to do it, and n. did not.
 
  *
 
 this post is, of course, pointless.  inerrantists have an amazing ability
 to rewrite the bible as needed to fit whatever they want it to say.
 
 for example, i expect mr king to respond to the comments about ezekiel 26
 by pulling some "clear implications" out of hat.
 
 when ezekiel said that n. would "demolish your towers", that clearly implied
 that the walls would still be standing so people would know where the towers
 used to be.  and when ezekiel said that n. would "demolish your fine houses
 and throw your stones, timber and rubble into the sea", that clearly implied
 that n. would never set foot on the island.  and when ezekiel wrote that n.
 would "build a ramp up to your walls", that clearly implies that n. would
 spend 13 years stomping around on the mainland and never get close to the
 walls.
 
 see?  a few "clear implications" that are totally contrary to the text, and
 you can reconcile anything you want.
 
 
 darren f provine / kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
 "[do] you know why i'm the enabler?  because you demand it!" -- cliff claven
 