
 > when are we going to hear a christian answer to this question? 
 > 
 > in paraphrase: 
 > 
 > on what or whose authority do christians proclaim that they
 > are above the law and above the prophets (7 major and 12 minor) and not 
 > accountable to the ten commandments of which jesus clearly spoke his opinion 
 > in matthew 5:14-19? what is the source of this pseudo-doctrine? who is
 > the pseudo-teacher? who is the great deceiver?
 
 ok, here's at least one christian's answer:
 
 jesus was a jew, not a christian.  in this context matthew 5:14-19 makes
 sense.  matt 5:17 "do not think that i [jesus] came to abolish the law or
 the prophets; i did not come to abolish, but to fulfill."  jesus lived
 under the jewish law.  however, he was the culmination of the promises
 of the prophets.  he came to *fulfill* the prophecies and fully obey
 god's purposes.
 
 verse 18 says "for truly i say to you, until heaven and earth pass
 away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law,
 until all is accomplished."  the key to this verse imho is the last 
 phrase.  jesus, as the fulfillment of the law, "accomplished" what the 
 law was supposed to accomplish.  
 
 verse 19:  "whoever then annuls one of the least of these commandments,
 and so teaches others, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven;
 but whoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the
 kingdom of heaven."  taken in the context of jesus teaching jewish 
 people about living lives under the law, this makes sense.
 
 in general, it appears that jesus is responding to some criticism he 
 must have received about "doing away with the law."  that was not 
 jesus' intent at all.  he had come to earth to live the law as it 
 should be lived and fulfill the promises made by god to his 
 people all the way back to eve [gen 3:15-the serpent will bruise your 
 heel, but *he* will bruise his head.]  jesus appeared to be "doing 
 away with the law" because he did not honor the traditions of men as 
 equal to the law of god.  he regularly locked horns with the religious 
 leaders of the day because he would not conform to *their* rules, only 
 god's law.
 
 in the matthew passage jesus is defending his dedication to the law 
 and defending himself against his accusors.  almost the entire sermon 
 on the mount (matt. 5-7) is dedicated to helping the jewish people 
 understand the true intent of the law, sweeping away the clutter which 
 had been introduced by the pharasees and their traditions.
 
 in galatians 3:23-26, paul describes the relationship of jesus to the 
 law in this way:
 
 [23] but before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, being 
 shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed.  [24] therefore 
 the law has become our tutor to lead us to christ, that we may be 
 justified by faith.  [25]  but now that faith has come, we are no 
 longer under a tutor.  [26] for you are all sons of god through faith 
 in christ jesus.
 
 i believe this says that after christ was revealed, the law had 
 served it's purpose, i.e. "our tutor to lead us to christ," and
 now, "we are no longer under a tutor."  the law has been "fulfilled" 
 as christ said he would do.
 
 god, the author of the old law, and the christ/man, jesus, are the same
 personality.  therefore, the old law and the new testament (the "last
 will and testament" of jesus) are based on the same moral principles. 
 it makes sense that many of the principles in the old law are
 re-expressed in christianity. 
 
 on the other hand, now that the law has fulfilled it's purpose and 
 christians relate to god through christ, not the law, it also makes 
 sense that new practices and new symbolisms were established to 
 represent the "mysteries" of this new relationship.  i.e. baptism 
 representing christ's death, burial, and resurrection (rom. 6:3-8),
 the lord's supper as a memorial to his sacrifice (i cor. 11:26), and
 sunday as a day of worship commemorating his resurrection (matt 28:1ff,
 acts 20:7)
 
 ok, that's one christian's explanation.  i don't claim to have all
 these issues completely settled even in my own mind and i welcome
 other christians to offer other alternatives.
 
 please excuse the long posting.  thanks for your interest if you have read 
 this far...
 
 john nunnally
 nunnally@acs.harding.edu
 