
 in article <1993apr21.231552.24869@organpipe.uug.arizona.edu>,
 brian@lpl.arizona.edu (brian ceccarelli 602/621-9615) wrote:
 > kent, i am not accusing you of evil things.  jesus is accusing you.
 > and it is not only you that he is accusing.  he is accusing everyone.
 > me, you and everyone in the world is guilty.  whether one
 > sees the light or does not seen the light has nothing to do with 
 > whether we do evil things.  we do them regardless.  
 
 hmm, it seems that this is the core of christianity then, you 
 have to feel guilty, and then there's this single personality
 that will save you from this universal guilt feeling.
 
 brian, i will tell you a secret, i don't feel guilty at all,
 i do mistakes, and i regret them, however i've never had this
 huge guilt feeling hanging over my shoulder.
 
 if things happen wrong, i will try to learn from the mistakes
 and go on.
 
 this all is a very clear indication that you need a certain
 personality type in order to believe and adjust to certain
 religious doctrines. and if your personality type is 
 opposite, then you are not that easily attached to a certain
 world view system.
 
 > so do you see jesus's point?  christians are not perfect.  nonchristians
 > are not perfect.  nonchristians do not want to come into the
 > light of jesus because they will see all the problems in their lives,
 > and they will not like the sight.  it is an ugly thing to see how far
 > we have fallen from jesus's perspective.  do you think you want to
 > know how really ignorant you are?  do you think brian kendig wants
 > to know?  do you think i want to know?  ego verses the truth,
 > which do you choose?
 
 all i know is that i don't know everything. and frankly speaking
 i don't care, life is fun anyway. i recognize that i'm not 
 perfect, but that does not hinder me from have a healthy
 and inspiring life.
 
 there are humans that subscribe to the same notion. the nice
 thing is that when you finally shake off this huge burden,
 the shoulders feel far more relaxed!
 
 cheers,
 kent
 ---
 sandvik@newton.apple.com. alink: ksand -- private activities on the net.
 