
 russell turpin, as is his wont, has raised some interesting issues 
 in his struggle with the christian texts and the christians. 
 unfortunately, he seems to be hoping for simplicity where it is 
 not available. the lukewarm stew he detects may well be an inevitable 
 result of the divine mixing himself up with a bunch of losers such 
 as humanity. 
 
 also unfortunately (perhaps) i have a deadline in two weeks, the 
 responsibility for which prevents me, in good conscience, 
 from writing a more considered response and fully entering the
 fray, as it were. 
 
 let me then say what i can, briefly.
 
 -----
 
 >the two commandments *are* rules; they are merely rules that are
 >so vague that they are practically devoid of meaning.  
 
 this point, for the net.browsers who also still read books, is
 pursued throughly in kaufmann, critique_of_religion_and_philosophy.
 
 >the commandment to love your neighbor as yourself can be viewed,
 >in part, as reminding man that he is not god and cannot act as if
 >he has "ultimate responsibility." 
 
 this is a theological statement worthy of barth.
 dr turpin (dd) may wear the black robe of geneva yet! :-)
 
 >indeed, many traditions present
 >an interpretation where believers are supposed to interpret
 >loving one's neighbor as following various other rules, and
 >relying on their god to make things come out right, precisely
 >because it would be wrong for man to assume such "ultimate
 >responsibility." once again, we are confronted with good sounding
 >goo that means whatever the reader wants it to mean. 
 
 this requires the assumption that all interpretations are
 equally valid, that there is no way of reasonably distinguishing
 among them. i wouldn't make that assumption; i don't think it is
 a reasonable assumption. 
 
 >and who is to say that this interpretation is "twisted"?  there
 >are many passages in the bible that in their most straightforward
 >reading show the christian god behaving in just this way.
 
 michael, and i, and others, read 'the bible' with christian
 glasses. among the things that this should imply is that the
 nt informs the ot, even to the point of dominanting it. some
 points in the ot (ceremonial & dietary laws) are explicitly 
 abrogated by the nt texts. to drive russell turpin's point with
 adequacy, one needs to begin with nt texts (probably from matthew,
 and probably about damnation) (just trying to help :-) )
 
 this part is, i discover, what most moves me to post:
 
 mls> i am a "radical" christian *only* in that i take the gospel seriously.
 
 >no, michael, the conservative christians also take the gospel 
 >seriously.  what differentiates you is the way you interpret the
 >gospel.
 
 russell turpin's 'no' here is misplaced, not to say inappropriate.
 michael's self-description much govern.  the equation of radical = liberal, 
 which seems implied by russell turpin  is wrong.  radical conservatives are 
 possible (if sadly lacking in numbers at present). thomas merton
 was a radical, even though conservative in some ways. st francis
 was a radical, similarly. how many examples are needed?
 
 mls> ... why don't i and the (myriads of) other christians like me
 mls> tell you something about christianity? ...
 
 michael's question gets to a heart of the matter (klingons have
 two hearts, so my metaphor is not mixed, just extraterrestrial :-) )
 russell turpin (in an earlier post) had said that michael (michael's
 theological positions, actually) didn't tell him much about christianity;
 dean simeon responds (this time gently): 'what do you mean?' more
 direct, perhaps, would have been: 'what could you possibly mean?'
 the implied rhetorical effort, to separate michael from the 
 tradition, is a failure. michael is in the tradition. if your idea
 of the tradition doesn't include him, change your idea of the tradition!
 
 >the irony here is that there is *nothing* in christianity per
 >se that michael can use to support the cause of lesbians and
 >gays.  
 
 how can one answer this while staying on the more general issue?
 i'm on the other side of the interpretive fence (from michael)
 on this issue, yet '*nothing*' is a hideous overstatement.
 
 one verse is enough to refute it; i'll offer two, from
 paul (of all people):
 
 'in jesus christ there is neither male nor female...'(galatians 3:28
 {i don't quote single verses as a rule, and i don't carry 
 them in my head}) and '*nothing* shall separate us from the glory of god...' 
 (roughly, from romans). [if russell would promise to convert based
 on these or any other verses,  i'd promise to get the full context
 for any that he requires :-) :-)]
 
 >in short, it is the extra-christian principles that
 >make michael's christianity beneficial, and i suspect they would
 >be as beneficial, perhaps moreso, without being filtered by
 >christian interpretation.  
 
 this conclusion does not follow, even in short, from the
 argument that goes before. a surprising logical ellipsis.
 
 dave davis, ddavis@ma30.bull.com
 these are my opinions & activities alone
 
 qotd:
 
 "wild beasts trapped in their cages are not so fierce
  as are the christians to each other."
 					julian the apostate, c.361
 
 