
 in article <93111.074840librba@byuvm.bitnet> librba@byuvm.bitnet writes:
 >
 >  robert, you keep making references to "orthodox" belief, and saying things
 >like "it is held that..." (cf. "kermit" thread).  on what exact body of
 >theology are you drawing for what you call "orthodox?"  who is that "holds
 >that" luke meant what you said he meant?  whenever your personal interpretation
 >of biblical passages is challenged, your only response seems
 >to be that one needs merely to "look at the bible" in order to see the truth,
 >but what of those who see biblical things differently from you?  are we to
 >simply assume that you are the only one who really understands it?
 
 rick, i think we can safely say, 1) robert is not the only person
 who understands the bible, and 2), the leadership of the lds church
 historicly never has.  let's consider some "personal interpretations"
 and see how much trust we should put in "orthodox mormonism", which
 could never be confused with orthodox christianity.
 
         in one of his attacks on christians, the mormon apostle bruce r.
 mcconkie said they "thrash around in...darkness in trying to identify
 elohim and jehovah and to show their relationship to the promised
 messiah." he also said christians are wrong to believe "that jehovah is
 the supreme deity [god the father]," and that christ "came into
 mortality" as his "only begotten" son. mcconkie then stated what mormons
 believe today to be the truth about the matter. he said that "elohim is
 the father" and "jehovah is the son."
 
   "being thus aware of how far astray the religious intellectualists
   have gone in defining their three-in-one god, it comes as no surprise
   to learn that they thrash around in the same darkness in trying to
   identify elohim and jehovah and to show their relationship to the
   promised messiah. some sectarians even believe that jehovah is the
   supreme deity whose son came into mortality as the only begotten. as
   with their concept that god is a spirit, this misinformation about the
   gods of heaven is untrue. the fact is, and it too is attested by holy
   writ, that elohim is the father, and that jehovah is the son who was
   born into mortality as the lord jesus christ, the promised messiah.
   (promised messiah, p. 100)
 
         notice that mcconkie said the christians are as wrong about
 their "three-in-one god" and their belief that "god is a spirit" as they
 are in their understanding of who "elohim" and "jehovah" are. before
 examining mcconkie's attack and its validity, we shall read a few more
 statements by mcconkie and other mormon sources concerning the words
 "elohim" and "jehovah." mcconkie stated:
 
   "...the chief designation of christ that has been preserved for us in
   the old testament, as that ancient work is now published, is the
   exalted name-title jehovah. (promised messiah, p. 367)
 
   "_elohim_, plural word though it is, is also used as the exalted
   name-title of god the eternal father, a usage that connotes his
   supremacy and omnipotence, he being god above all gods. (mormon
   doctrine, p. 224)
 
         agreeing with mcconkie on the question of who "elohim" and
 "jehovah" are, the apostle james e. talmage stated:
 
   "_elohim_, as understood and used in the restored church of jesus
   christ, is the name-title of god the eternal father, whose firstborn
   son in the spirit is _jehovah_ -- the only begotten in the flesh,
   jesus christ. (jesus the christ, p. 38)
 
         "a doctrinal exposition by the first presidency and the twelve"
 apostles of the mormon church states that "god the eternal father...[is]
 designate[d] by the exalted name-title 'elohim'..." (articles of faith,
 p. 466) "...christ in his preexistent, antemortal, or unembodied
 state...was known as jehovah..." (articles of faith, p. 471)
 
         today mormon leaders teach that "elohim" in the ot refers to god
 the father and "jehovah" refers to christ. mcconkie attacked christians
 for saying "jehovah" can refer to the father. he stressed that these two
 "name-titles" should not be changed around so that christ is called
 "elohim" and the father is called "jehovah." "...the father...is elohim,
 not jehovah.... jehovah is christ, and christ is jehovah; they are one
 and the same person." (promised messiah, p. 111)
 
         in the ot of the kjv of the bible, the hebrew word "elohim" is
 used to refer to the true god, false gods and goddesses, and the judges
 of israel. when referring to the true god, "elohim" is translated with a
 capital "g." when referring to false gods and goddesses and the judges
 of israel, it is translated with a small "g." it is translated four
 times as "judges" (exod. 21:6; 22:8-9), once as "judge" (1 sam. 2:25),
 twice as "mighty" (gen. 23:6; exod. 9:28), once as "angels" (ps. 8:5),
 once as "godly" (mal. 2:15), once as "great" (gen. 30:8), and once as
 "very great." (1 sam. 14:15)
 
         the word "jehovah" is the traditional pronunciation of the
 tetragrammation yhwh or yhvh with the vowel points taken from the word
 "adonai."  many people believe the true pronunciation of the
 tetragrammation was yahweh or yahveh. however, since "jehovah" rather
 than yahweh is the word used by mormonism, this section will also use
 "jehovah" instead of yahweh to examine the validity of the claims of
 mormon leaders regarding that name. "jehovah," unlike "elohim," is never
 used of false gods. it is the personal name of the triune god of the
 bible. in the kjv, "jehovah" is rendered primarily "lord," sometimes
 "god," and rarely "lord."
 
         now that we understand something about the words "elohim" and
 "jehovah" and their use by mormon leaders, we shall consider the apostle
 mcconkie's attack on christians for believing the father is "jehovah."
 in trying to prove that "jehovah" refers exclusively to christ, mcconkie
 cited several verses from the bible. some of these verses and mcconkie's
 interpretation of them will be examined to see whether he was right.
 remember, mcconkie said the father is not "jehovah;" he is only
 "elohim." the first example we shall consider involves mcconkie's
 interpretation of ps. 110:1. of this verse he stated:
 
   "of whom spake david when his tongue was touched by the holy spirit
   and he testified, "the lord said unto my lord, sit thou at my right
   hand, until i make thine enemies thy footstool?" (ps. 110:1.) two
   lords are here involved: one is speaking to the other; one is greater
   than the other; one is making provision for the triumph and glory of
   the other. who are they and what message is contained in this
   messianic prophecy?
   "what think ye of christ?" our lord asked certain of his detractors
   toward the end of his mortal ministry. "whose son is he?" is christ
   the son of god or of someone else? is he to be born of a divine parent
   or will he be as other men -- a mortal son of a mortal father? that he
   was to be a descendant of david was a matter of great pride to all the
   jews. and so they answered, "the son of david."
   david's son? truly he was. but he was more, much more. and so our
   lord, with irrefutable logic and to their complete discomfiture,
   asked, "how then doth david in spirit call him lord, saying, the lord
   said unto my lord, sit thou on my right hand, till i make thine
   enemies thy footstool? if david then call him lord, how is he his
   son?" that is, if he is only the son of david, how is it that the
   great king, acting under inspiration, calls him lord and worships him
   as such? and we might add: _who is the other lord, the one who spake
   unto david's lord?_ can there be any question as to how jesus is
   interpreting the words of the psalm? he is saying that it means: '_the
   father said unto the son, elohim said unto jehovah_, sit thou on my
   right hand, until after your mortal ministry; then i will raise you up
   to eternal glory and exaltation with me, where you will continue to
   sit on my right hand forever.' (promised messiah, pp. 101-102)
   (emphasis added)
 
         agreeing with the above statement by mcconkie, the following
 remark in the mormon pamphlet _what the mormons think of christ, p. 6
 reads: "the lord [elohim, the father] said unto my lord [jehovah, the
 son]..." (brackets in original)
 
         mcconkie clearly stated that it is "elohim" the father who is
 speaking to "jehovah" the son in this psalm. however, when one looks at
 the hebrew word translated "lord," it becomes apparent that either the
 first "lord" is not the father or else the father is "jehovah." either
 way mcconkie is wrong. the psalm reads:
 
   "the lord [jehovah] said unto my lord [adon], sit thou at my right
   hand, until i make thine enemies thy footstool. (ps. 110:1)
 
         the first "lord" in this verse is "jehovah" who mormonism says
 is christ, not the father. the second "lord" is the hebrew word "adon"
 (singular for "adonai," meaning master or lord). if the first "lord" is
 the father and the second "lord" is the son, then the father is
 "jehovah" and the son is "adon." however, if the father is not "jehovah"
 as mcconkie claimed, then the first "lord" is "jehovah" the son, but
 who, then, is "adon?" obviously the father is "jehovah" in this psalm,
 and his son is "adon."
 
         another example involves isa. 42:6 about which mcconkie stated
 the following:
 
   "i the lord have called thee in righteousness," _isaiah quoted the
   father as saying of christ_, "and will hold thine hand, and will keep
   thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the
   gentiles." (isa. 42:6.) (promised messiah, p. 81) (emphasis added)
 
         mcconkie said the father was speaking of christ in this passage
 which reads:
 
   "i the lord [jehovah] have called thee in righteousness, and will hold
   thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the
   people, for a light of the gentiles. (isa. 42:6)
 
         according to mcconkie, "i the lord" refers to the father, and
 "thine" and "thee" refer to christ. however, the "lord" who is speaking
 is "jehovah" which means either mcconkie was wrong about who is speaking
 or else the father is "jehovah."
 
         another example involves ps. 22:7-8. of these verses mcconkie
 stated:
 
   "the same psalm says: "all they that see me laugh me to scorn: they
   shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, he trusted on the lord
   that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in
   him." (ps. 22:7-8.) _the fulfillment, as jesus hung on the cross_, is
   found in these words: "the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes
   and elders, said, he saved others; himself he cannot save. if he be
   the king of israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will
   believe him. he trusted in god; let him deliver him now, if he will
   have him: for he said, i am the son of god. the thieves also, which
   were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth." (matt.
   27:41-44.) (promised messiah, pp. 530-531) (emphasis added)
 
         ps. 22:7-8 reads as follows:
 
   "all they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they
   shake the head, saying, he trusted on the lord [jehovah] that he would
   deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
 
         mcconkie said these verses had their fulfillment "as jesus hung
 on the cross." that means the person who was scorned in these verses was
 christ. who, then, was the "lord" in whom he trusted? it was "jehovah"
 the father.
 
         another example involves ps. 31:13 and ps. 41:9. regarding them,
 mcconkie stated the following:
 
   "with reference to the conniving and conspiring plots incident to our
   lord's arrest and judicial trials the prophecy was: "they took counsel
   together against me, they devised to take away my life." (ps. 31:13.)
   as to the role of judas in those conspiracies, the psalmist says:
   "mine own familiar friend, in whom i trusted, which did eat of my
   bread, hath lifted up his heel against me." (ps. 41:9.) (promised
   messiah, p. 532)
 
         apostle mcconkie said these psalms refer to christ's "arrest and
 judicial trials." we shall first consider ps. 31 and then ps. 41. while
 mcconkie only quoted verse 13 of ps. 31, verse 14 will also be included
 to give a complete understanding of the matter.
 
   "for i have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while
   they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my
   life. but i trusted in thee, o lord [jehovah]: i said, thou art my god
   [elohim]. (ps. 31:13-14)
 
         mcconkie said verse 13 referred to jesus christ. verse 14 goes
 on to tell that he (christ) trusted in the "lord" who is called his
 "god" or "elohim." mormonism teaches that the god above jesus is
 "elohim" the father. verse 14, however, reveals that the "elohim" of the
 man jesus is "jehovah" the father.
 
         in ps. 41, mcconkie only quoted one verse; however, two verses
 will be considered in this examination.
 
   "yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom i trusted, which did eat of my
   bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.
   but thou, o lord [jehovah], be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that
   i may requite them. (ps. 41:9-10)
 
         mcconkie stated above that verse 9 referred to judas' role in
 christ's death. since it was judas who was the "familiar friend" who
 "lifted up his heel," the pronouns "mine," "i," "my," and "me" in verse
 9 must refer to christ. notice that at the beginning of verse 10 there
 is a change of pronoun to "thou," which refers to the "lord" (jehovah).
 then the pronouns "me" and "i" which refer to christ are used again.
 that means christ was speaking to "jehovah" the father in these verses.
 
         another example involves mcconkie's following remark about ps.
         110:4.
 
   "one of the great messianic prophecies, spoken by the mouth of david,
   says: "the lord hath sworn, and will not repent, thou art a priest for
   ever after the order of melchizedek." (ps. 110:4.) (promised messiah,
   p. 450)
 
         mcconkie admitted this is a messianic prophecy involving christ.
 the question is, what in this verse refers to christ?
 
   "the lord [jehovah] hath sworn, and will not repent, thou art a priest
   for ever after the order of melchizedek. (ps. 110:4)
 
         does the "lord," which is "jehovah," refer to christ? if
 mcconkie is right and jesus is "jehovah," but the father is not, then
 the "lord" would have to refer to christ. but who, then, is the one
 addressed as the "priest forever after the order of melchizedek?" the
 bible reveals that the one referred to is jesus christ (heb. 5:8-10;
 6:20; 7); therefore, the "lord" (jehovah) in ps. 110:4 is the father.
 
         another example involves isa. 53:4-12. of these verses mcconkie
 stated:
 
   "of the atoning sacrifice of the future messiah, isaiah said...
      the _lord_ has laid on him the iniquities of us all....
      it pleased the _lord_ to bruise him... (promised messiah, p. 234)
      (emphasis added)
 
         mcconkie rightly said these verses refer to "the atoning
 sacrifice of the future messiah." however, what he failed to mention is
 that they also prove that the father is "jehovah." verse 6 reads: "all
 we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way;
 and the lord [jehovah] hath laid on him [christ] the iniquity of us
 all," and verse 10 reads: "yet it pleased the lord [jehovah] to bruise
 him [christ]..."
 
         obviously the "lord" who laid on christ "the iniquity of us all"
 and who bruised him is god the father who is called "jehovah" in these
 verses.
 
         remember, mcconkie stated that "some sectarians even believe
 that jehovah is the supreme deity," and that christ "came into
 mortality" as his "only begotten" son. he called this concept
 "misinformation" that is "untrue." to prove that it is mcconkie who is
 misinformed and believing untruth, two scriptural references (2 sam.
 7:14; ps. 2:7) will be examined. mcconkie stated the following regarding
 these scriptures:
 
   "in the midst of a passage that is clearly messianic, the lord says of
   the seed of david: "i will be his father, and he shall be my son." (2
   sam. 7:14.) in the second psalm, the whole of which is also clearly
   messianic, occurs this statement: "thou art my son; this day have i
   begotten thee." (ps. 2:7.) paul quotes both of these statements in
   hebrews 1:5 and says they are prophecies that christ would come as the
   son of god. (promised messiah, p. 143)
 
         mcconkie cited heb. 1:5 to show that 2 sam. 7:14 and ps. 2:7
 refer to christ who "would come as the son of god." since mcconkie first
 referenced 2 sam. 7:14, this examination will, too. however, along with
 verse 14, verses 11-13 will also be included.
 
   "and as since the time that i commanded judges to be over my people
   israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. also the
   lord [jehovah] telleth thee that he will make thee an house.
   and when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers,
   i will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy
   bowels, and i will establish his kingdom.
   he shall build an house for my name, and i will stablish the throne of
   his kingdom for ever. i will be his father, and he shall be my son. (2
   sam. 7:11-14)
 
         these verses teach that the "lord" (jehovah) would have a son,
 the messiah.
         in the second example mcconkie cited ps. 2:7. this examination
 will include verse 8. notice that it is the "lord" (jehovah) who says,
 "thou art my son; this day have i begotten thee."
 
   "i will declare the decree: the lord [jehovah] hath said unto me, thou
   art my son; this day have i begotten thee.
   ask of me, and i shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance,
   and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.
 
         mcconkie said these verses of scripture are "clearly messianic,"
 and he acknowledged they teach that "christ would come as the son of
 god." what he is not willing to acknowledge, however, is that these
 scriptures also teach that the father is "jehovah" and that the
 "sectarians" who believe "jehovah is the supreme deity whose son" is
 jesus christ, "the only begotten," are right in their belief.
 
         another example involves mic. 5:4. of this verse mcconkie stated
 the following:
 
   "and so, truly, did our lord act _during his mortal ministry! truly,
   this is he of whom it is written_: "he shall stand and feed in the
   strength of the lord, in the majesty of the name of the lord his
   god... for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth." (mic.
   5:4.) (promised messiah, p. 182) (emphasis added)
 
         according to mcconkie, the pronoun "he" at the beginning of mic.
 5:4 refers to christ "during his mortal ministry." who, then, is the
 "lord his god?" mic. 5:4 reads:
 
   "and he [christ] shall stand and feed in the strength of the lord
   [jehovah], in the majesty of the name of the lord [jehovah] his god
   [elohim]... for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth.
 
         obviously the "lord" of jesus christ is "jehovah" the father who
 is referred to as "jehovah his elohim."
 
         another example involves ps. 2:2 and isa. 61:1. of these verses
 mcconkie stated the following:
 
   "a number of messianic passages speak of "the lord, and...his
   anointed" (ps. 2:2), signifying that the chosen one was consecrated
   and set apart for the ministry and mission that was his. _jesus
   applied these passages to himself_ by quoting isaiah's prophecy. "the
   lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek" (isa.
   61:1), and then saying: "this day is this scripture fulfilled in your
   ears" (luke 4:21). (promised messiah, pp. 182-183) (emphasis added)
 
         the first source mcconkie quoted -- ps. 2:2 -- reads as follows:
 
   "the kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
   together, against the lord [jehovah], and against his anointed.
 
         mcconkie said the "anointed" one was christ. if that is true,
 who was "jehovah?" if "jehovah" is always christ, who was the "anointed"
 one? obviously "jehovah" is referring to god the father and the
 "anointed" is indeed referring to christ. the second source mcconkie
 cited is isa. 61:1 which states:
 
   "the spirit of the lord [adonai] god [jehovah] is upon me; because the
   lord [jehovah] hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek;
   he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to
   the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;
 
         the one who was anointed to preach, bind up, proclaim, and open
 was jesus christ. who, then, was the one who anointed him? this verse
 says the "lord" (jehovah) did the anointing. again, we face the same
 problem. if "jehovah" does not refer to the father, but only to christ,
 then jesus anointed someone, but who? as mcconkie pointed out, "jesus
 applied these passages to himself." therefore, the "jehovah" who
 anointed christ is god the father.
 
         other examples could be cited to show that mcconkie and other
 mormon leaders are wrong when they say god the father is not "jehovah."
 however, these should be enough to expose their error.
 
         now, what about mormonism's claim that jesus is "jehovah," but
 he is not "elohim?" it is true that jesus is "jehovah." the following
 scriptures prove this fact:
 
   "thus saith the lord [jehovah] the king of israel, and his redeemer
   the lord [jehovah] of hosts; i am the first, and i am the last; and
   beside me there is no god. (isa. 44:6)
   [jesus said] ...i am the first and the last: i am he that liveth, and
   was dead... (rev. 1:17-18)
 
   "...saith the lord [jehovah]...they shall look upon me whom they have
   pierced, and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only
   son... (zech. 12:1,10)
   behold, he [christ] cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him,
   and they also which pierced him... (rev. 1:7)
 
   "...i am the lord [jehovah] thy god, the holy one of israel... (isa.
   43:3)
   ...ye denied the holy one [christ] and the just... (acts 3:14)
 
   "and it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call on the name of
   the lord [jehovah] shall be delivered... (joel 2:32)
   "...the name of jesus christ of nazareth...there is none other name
   under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. (acts 4:10,12)
 
   "behold, the lord god [jehovah] will come with strong hand...his
   reward is with him... (isa. 40:10)
   ...behold, i [christ] come quickly; and my reward is with me... (rev.
   22:12)
 
   "...the lord [jehovah] my god shall come, and all the saints with
   thee. (zech. 14:5)
   "...at the coming of our lord jesus christ with all his saints. (1
   thess. 3:13)
 
   "the lord [jehovah] is my shepherd... (ps. 23:1)
   [jesus said] i am the good shepherd... (john 10:14)
 
   "...saith the lord god [jehovah]. i will seek that which was lost...
   (ezek. 34:15-16)
   ...the son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
   (luke 19:10)
 
   "for i am the lord [jehovah] thy god, the holy one of israel, thy
   saviour... (isa. 43:3)
   looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great
   god and our saviour jesus christ. (tit. 2:13. see also jer. 42:5 and
   rev. 1:5; mal. 3:6 and heb. 13:8; 1 kin. 8:28,39 and john 2:24-25;
   isa. 25:8 and 2 tim. 1:10; ps. 107:24,29 and matt. 8:26; prov.3:12 and
   rev. 3:19)
 
         while mormons are right when they say jesus is "jehovah," they
 are wrong when they say he is not "elohim." the bible reveals that
 "jehovah" is the only true "elohim" there is; all others are false.
 remember, "jehovah" is the personal name of the triune god who has
 revealed himself in the bible.
 
         before we consider biblical quotes which show that "jehovah" and
 "elohim" are not two separate gods as mormons claims let us first note
 that not only are both god the father and christ addressed as "jehovah"
 and "elohim" but so is the holy spirit.
 
   "whereof the _holy ghost_..._said_...this _is_ the covenant that i
   will make with them after those days, saith the lord, i will put my
   laws into their hearts, and in their minds will i write them; and
   their sins and iniquities will i remember no more. (heb. 10:15-17)
   (emphasis on "holy ghost" and "said" added)
   behold, the days come, _saith the lord_ [jehovah], that i will make a
   new covenant with the house of israel, and with the house of judah...
   i will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts;
   and will be their god [elohim], and they shall be my people.... i will
   forgive their iniquity, and i will remember their sin no more. (jer.
   31:31,33-34) (emphasis added)
 
   "for the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy
   men of god spake as they were moved by the _holy ghost_. (2 pet. 1:21)
   (emphasis on "holy ghost" added)
   "the spirit of the lord [jehovah] spake by me, and his word was in
   my tongue. (2 sam. 23:2. see also heb. 3:7-11 with ps. 95:6-11)
 
         let us now continue with the biblical quotes which show that
 "jehovah" and "elohim" are not two separate gods as mormons claim.
 
   "and when the lord [jehovah] saw that he [moses] turned aside to see,
   god [elohim] called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said,
   moses, moses. and he said, here am i.... [bruce r. mcconkie
   acknowledged that "it was" christ's "voice that spoke to moses in the
   burning bush..." promised messiah, p. 394]
   and the lord [jehovah] said...
   and moses said unto god [elohim], behold, when i come unto the
   children of israel, and shall say unto them, the god [elohim] of your
   fathers hath sent me unto you; and they shall say to me, what is his
   name? what shall i say unto them?
   and god [elohim] said unto moses, i am that i am: and he said, thus
   shalt thou say unto the children of israel, i am hath sent me unto
   you.
   and god [elohim] said moreover unto moses, thus shalt thou say unto
   the children of israel, the lord [jehovah] god [elohim] of your
   fathers, the god [elohim] of abraham, the god [elohim] of isaac, and
   the god [elohim] of jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is my name for
   ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. (exod.
   3:4,7,13-15)
 
   "and god [elohim] spake unto moses, and said unto him, i am the lord
   [jehovah]. (exod. 6:2)
 
   "i am the lord [jehovah], and there is none else, there is no god
   [elohim] beside me: i girded thee, though thou hast not known me:
   (isa. 45:5)
 
   "but the lord [jehovah] is the true god [elohim], he is the living god
   [elohim], and an everlasting king... (jer. 10:10)
 
   "thus saith the lord [jehovah] the king of israel, and his redeemer
   the lord [jehovah] of hosts; i am the first, and i am the last; and
   beside me there is no god [elohim]. (isa. 44:6)
 
   "therefore will i cause you to go into captivity beyond damascus,
   saith the lord [jehovah], whose name is the god [elohim] of hosts.
   (amos 5:27)
 
   "behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens is the lord's
   [jehovah's] thy god [elohim], the earth also, with all that therein
   is. (deut. 10:14)
 
   "wherefore thou art great, o lord [jehovah] god [elohim]: for there is
   none like thee, neither is there any god [elohim] beside thee,
   according to all that we have heard with our ears. (2 sam. 7:22)
 
   "and he said unto them, i am an hebrew; and i fear the lord [jehovah],
   the god [elohim] of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land.
   (jon. 1:9)
 
   "for who is god [elohim] save the lord [jehovah]? or who is a rock
   save our god [elohim]? (ps. 18:31)
 
   "blessed is the nation whose god [elohim] is the lord [jehovah]...
   (ps. 33:12. see also ps. 144:15)
 
   "hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting god
   [elohim], the lord [jehovah], the creator of the ends of the earth,
   fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his
   understanding. (isa. 40:28)
 
   "the mighty god [elohim], even the lord [jehovah], hath spoken, and
   called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down
   thereof. (ps. 50:1)
 
   "sing unto god [elohim], sing praises to his name: estol him that
   rideth upon the heavens by his name jah, and rejoice before him. (ps.
   68:4) [regarding the word "jah," bruce r. mcconkie stated: "jah
   (hebrew yah) is a contracted form of jehovah, jahveh, or yahweh -- all
   of which names have reference to christ, the god of israel." mormon
   doctrine, p. 391]
 
   "and david arose, and went with all the people that were with him from
   baale of judah, to bring up from thence the ark of god [elohim], whose
   name is called by the name of the lord [jehovah] of hosts that
   dwelleth between the cherubims. (2 sam. 6:2)
 
   "...the great the mighty god [elohim], the lord [jehovah] of hosts, is
   his name. (jer. 32:18)
 
   "o my god [elohim], make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the
   wind....
   fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, o lord
   [jehovah]....
   that men may know that thou, whose name alone is jehovah, art the most
   high over all the earth. (ps. 83:13,16,18)
 
         the bible clearly teaches that "jehovah" is "elohim." in fact,
 he is the only "elohim" there is. he is the "true," the "living," the
 "mighty," the "great," and the "everlasting elohim." he is the "elohim"
 of israel, of all the kingdoms of the earth, and of the heavens. he is
 the creator who made the heavens and all their host and the earth and
 all that dwell thereon. "jehovah's" name is "elohim of hosts." (amos
 5:27)
 
         not only is "jehovah," "elohim," but "elohim" is "jehovah." the
 bible reveals that "elohim's" name is "jah" (ps. 68:4), "jehovah" (ps.
 83:18), and "jehovah of hosts." (2 sam. 6:2; jer. 32:18)   the nation
 whose "elohim" is "jehovah" is blessed. (ps. 33:12) clearly, this is not
 the "jehovah" and "elohim" of the mormons.
 
         another mormon error regarding "elohim" and "jehovah" is the
 belief that "elohim," not "jehovah," is the father of all the spirits,
 including jesus. in the articles of faith by apostle james e. talmage,
 "a doctrinal exposition by the first presidency and the twelve" apostles
 states that "god the eternal father...'elohim,' is the literal parent
 of...the spirits of the human race." (p. 466) this "doctrinal
 exposition" also states explicitly that "jesus christ is not the father
 of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth,
 for he is one of them. he is the son, as they are sons and daughters of
 elohim." (p. 473)
 
         the apostle talmage stated that "_elohim_...is the name-title of
 god the eternal father, whose firstborn son in the spirit is
 _jehovah_--" (jesus the christ, p. 38)
 
         the apostle bruce r. mcconkie stated the following about this
 matter: "...jehovah-christ...did in fact create the earth and all forms
 of plant and animal life on the face thereof. _but when it came to
 placing man on earth, there was a change in creators_. that is, the
 father himself became personally involved. all things were created by
 the son, using the power delegated by the father, except man. _in the
 spirit and again in the flesh, man was created by the father_. there was
 no delegation of authority where the crowning creature of creation was
 concerned." (promised messiah, p. 62) (emphasis added)
 
         mormon leaders claim that "jehovah-christ" did not create either
 man's spirit or his body. they maintain that the mormon "elohim," who is
 the father, created man both in spirit and body. the bible reveals the
 truth about who created man.
 
   "and moses spake unto the lord [jehovah], saying,
   let the lord [jehovah], the god [elohim] of the _spirits of all
   flesh_, set a man over the congregation. (num. 27:15-16. see also
   16:20-23) (emphasis added)
 
   "...the lord [jehovah], which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth
   the foundation of the earth, and _formeth the spirit of man within
   him_. (zech. 12:1) (emphasis added)
 
   "...the lord [jehovah]...made us this soul... (jer. 38:16)
 
   "for i will not contend for ever, neither will i be always wroth: for
   the spirit should fail before me, and the _souls which i have
   made_....
   ...saith the lord [jehovah]... (isa. 57:16,19) (emphasis on "souls...i
   have made" added)
 
   "behold, i am the lord [jehovah], the god [elohim] _of all flesh_...
   (jer. 32:27) (emphasis added)
 
   "thus saith the lord [jehovah], thy redeemer, and he that _formed thee
   from the womb_.
   i am the lord [jehovah] that maketh all things... (isa. 44:24)
   (emphasis added)
 
   "thus saith the lord [jehovah]...
   i have made the earth, and _created man_ upon it... (isa. 45:11-12)
   (emphasis added)
 
   "...god [elohim] created man upon the earth...
   unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know that the lord
   [jehovah] he is god [elohim]; there is none else beside him. (deut.
   4:32,35)
 
   "thus saith god [el] the lord [jehovah]...he that spread forth the
   earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the
   people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein. (isa. 42:5)
 
   "...thus saith the lord [jehovah] of hosts, the god [elohim] of
   israel... i have made the earth, _the man_ and the beast that are upon
   the ground... (jer. 27:4-5) (most emphasis added)
 
         the bible reveals that it is "jehovah" who is the "elohim of the
 spirits of all flesh" and "of all flesh" itself, that it was he who
 "formed the spirit of man within him," that he "made us this soul" and
 "formed us from the womb." he did indeed "create man."
 
         if mormon leaders are right when they say jesus is "jehovah,"
 then they are wrong when they say he did not create man. if they are
 right when they say the father is the one who created man, then they are
 wrong when they say he is not "jehovah."
 
         although mormon leaders teach that jesus did not create man,
 mormon scriptures teach that he did. the bom states the following:
 
   "behold, i am jesus christ. i am the father and the son....
   and never have i showed myself unto _man whom i have created_, for
   never has man believed in me as thou hast....
   behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and
   _man have i created_ after the body of my spirit... (eth. 3:14-16)
   (emphasis added)
 
   "for it is i that taketh upon me the sins of the world; for it is _i
   that hath created them_... (mos. 26:23) (emphasis added)
 
   "...the god of abraham, and the god of isaac, and the god of
   jacob...is that same god who created the heavens and the earth, and
   all things that in them are.
   behold _he created adam_... (mor. 9:11-12) (emphasis added)
 
         d&c, 93:10 states that "the worlds were made by him [christ];
 _men were made by him_; all things were made by him, and through him,
 and of him." (emphasis added)
 
         another error by bruce r. mcconkie involving "jehovah" and his
 creation is the belief that "jehovah" had "many" pre-mortal spirits
 helping him create. included in this alleged group was joseph smith, jr.
 
   "that he [christ] was aided in the creation of this earth by "many of
   the noble and great" spirit children of the father is evident from
   abraham's writings. unto those superior spirits christ said: "we will
   go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these
   materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (abra.
   3:22-24.) michael or adam was one of these. enoch, noah, abraham,
   moses, peter, james, and john, joseph smith, and many other "noble and
   great" ones played a part in the great creative enterprise. (doctrines
   of salvation, vol. 1, pp. 74-75.) (mormon doctrine, p. 169)
 
         the bible reveals the truth about this matter:
 
   "thus saith the lord [jehovah], thy redeemer, and he that formed thee
   from the womb, i am the lord [jehovah] that maketh all things; that
   stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by
   myself. (isa. 44:24)
 
   "which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of
   the sea. (job 9:8)
 
         "jehovah," by himself, created all things. he had no alleged
 preexistent spirit helpers assisting him.
 
         regarding the mormon 'elohim," the apostle mcconkie stated:
 "elohim. plural word though it is, is also used as the exalted
 name-title of god the eternal father, a usage that connotes his
 supremacy and omnipotence, he being god above all gods." (mormon
 doctrine, p. 224) he also stated that "jesus...is above all save the
 father only." (promised messiah, p. 363)
 
         the bible states that the one who is god above all so-called
 gods is the triune god "jehovah."
 
   "for the lord [jehovah] is a great god [el], and a great king above
   all gods [elohim]. (ps. 95:3)
 
   "for thou, lord [jehovah], art high above all the earth: thou art
   exalted far above all gods [elohim]. (ps. 97:9)
 
   "now i know that the lord [jehovah] is greater than all gods
   [elohim]... (exod. 18:11. see also ps. 135:5; deut. 10:17)
 
         if mormon leaders are right when they say "jehovah" is god the
 son and "elohim" is god the father, these verses from the bible would be
 teaching that the mormon son is above his father. however, as mcconkie
 clearly stated, mormons believe "elohim" the father, not "jehovah" the
 son, is the "god above all gods" -- that jesus is above all except the
 father; yet the bible teaches that "jehovah" is above all "elohim."
 
         at a byu dev. on march 2, 1982, bruce r. mcconkie made the
 following remark about praying to jesus:
 
   "another peril is that those so involved often begin to pray directly
   to christ because of some special friendship they feel has been
   developed....
   this is plain sectarian nonsense. our prayers are addressed to the
   father, and to him only....
   ...perfect prayer is addressed to the father, in the name of the son;
   it is uttered by the power of the holy ghost... (our relationship with
   the lord, pp. 19-20)
 
         mcconkie states on p. 335 of his book promised messiah that the
 mormons "pray to the father, not the son..." on p. 306 of the same book
 mcconkie states that "christ [the son] is jehovah." this is important to
 remember, because although mcconkie said prayer is not to be offered to
 the mormon christ who is "jehovah," the bible states repeatedly in the
 ot that people prayed to "jehovah," and he not only heard those prayers,
 but he accepted them as valid requests. the following is but a small
 sample of the vast number of times people prayed to "jehovah."
 
   "in my distress i called upon the lord [jehovah], and cried unto my
   god [elohim]: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came
   before him, even into his ears. (ps. 18:6)
 
   "and the lord [jehovah] said unto him, i have heard thy prayer and thy
   supplication, that thou hast made before me: i have hallowed this
   house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever; and mine
   eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually. (1 kin. 9:3)
 
   "and said unto jeremiah the prophet, let, we beseech thee, our
   supplication be accepted before thee, and pray for us unto the lord
   [jehovah] thy god [elohim], even for all this remnant... (jer. 42:2)
 
   "o lord [jehovah], i beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to
   the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who
   desire to fear thy name... (neh. 1:11)
 
   "and it was so, that when solomon had made an end of praying all this
   prayer and supplication unto the lord [jehovah], he arose from before
   the altar of the lord [jehovah], from kneeling on his knees with his
   hands spread up to heaven. (1 kin. 8:54)
 
   "he went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed
   unto the lord [jehovah]. (2 kin. 4:33)
 
   "go, and say to hezekiah, thus saith the lord [jehovah], the god
   [elohim] of david thy father, i have heard thy prayer, i have seen thy
   tears: behold, i will add unto thy days fifteen years. (isa. 38:5)
 
   "i acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have i not hid. i
   said, i will confess my transgressions unto the lord [jehovah]; and
   thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.
   for this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when
   thou mayest be found... (ps. 32:5-6)
 
         notice above in ps. 32:6 that the "godly" pray to "jehovah."
 according to mcconkie and other mormon leaders, that is christ the very
 one to whom mcconkie said people should not pray.
 
         the bible reveals there is only one true "elohim," and his name
 is "jehovah." all other "elohim" are false. they are idols that cause
 their followers to commit adultery against the true "elohim" and
 idolatry.
 
   "for the lord [jehovah] is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to
   be feared above all gods [elohim].
   for all the gods [elohim] of the nations are idols: but the lord
   [jehovah] made the heavens. (ps. 96:4-5)
 
   "thou shalt have no other gods [elohim] before me. (exod. 20:3)
 
   "now i know that the lord [jehovah] is greater than all gods
   [elohim]... (exod. 18:11)
 
   "and it shall be, if thou do at all forget the lord [jehovah] thy god
   [elohim], and walk after other gods [elohim], and serve them, and
   worship them, i testify against you this day that ye shall surely
   perish. (deut. 8:19)
 
   "thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods [elohim].
   they shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me:
   for if thou serve their gods [elohim], it will surely be a snare unto
   thee. (exod. 23:32- 33)
 
   "take heed to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn
   aside, and serve other gods [elohim], and worship them. (deut. 11:16)
 
   "that ye come not among these nations, these that remain among you;
   neither make mention of the name of their gods [elohim], nor cause to
   swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves unto them.
   (josh. 23:7)
 
   "...neither walk after other gods [elohim] to your hurt. (jer. 7:6)
 
   "but the lord [jehovah] is the true god [elohim], he is the living god
   [elohim]... (jer. 10:10)
 
   "and they forsook the lord [jehovah] god [elohim] of their fathers,
   which brought them out of the land of egypt, and followed other gods
   [elohim], of the gods [elohim] of the people that were round about
   them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the lord [jehovah]
   to anger. (jud. 2:12)
 
   "shall a man make gods [elohim] unto himself, and they are no gods
   [elohim]? therefore, behold, i will this once cause them to know, i
   will cause them to know mine hand and my might; and they shall know
   that my name is the lord [jehovah]. ( jer. 16:20-21)
 
   "and if it seem evil unto you to serve the lord [jehovah], choose you
   this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods [elohim] which your
   fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods
   [elohim] of the amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my
   house, we will serve the lord [jehovah].
   and the people answered and said, god [elohim] forbid that we should
   forsake the lord [jehovah], to serve other gods [elohim]. (josh.
   24:15-16)
 
         these verses teach that the only true, living "elohim" in heaven
 and on earth is "jehovah" -- the triune god who made heaven and earth
 and all therein.
 
         "jehovah" is greater than any "elohim," because all other
 "elohim" are idols. the reality behind them is demonic. (deut. 32:17)
 "jehovah elohim" has given explicit warnings and guidelines regarding
 these false "elohim." he told his people not to have any "elohim" but
 him. he told the people that if they left him for the false "elohim,"
 those "elohim" would be a snare to them, and they would be hurt and
 would perish. he warned the people to "take heed" that their "heart be
 not deceived" into worshiping, serving, swearing by, and making
 covenants with false "elohim." "jehovah elohim" told his people he would
 eventually judge all false "elohim" and their followers.
 
         despite these warnings and guidelines, "elohim's" covenant
 people forsook him and believed in and worshiped the false "elohim's" of
 the people they came in contact with. ju. 10:6 states that "the children
 of israel did evil again in the sight of the lord [jehovah] and served
 baalim, and ashtaroth, and the gods [elohim] of syria, and the gods
 [elohim] of zidon, and the gods [elohim] of moab, and the gods [elohim]
 of the children of ammon, and the gods [elohim] of the philistines, and
 forsook the lord [jehovah], and served not him."
 
         this examination has shown that the "elohim" of mormonism, like
 the "elohim" in ju. 10:6 is not the true "jehovah elohim." therefore,
 the people who leave the true "elohim" for the mormon "elohim" will do
 "evil...in the sight of the lord [jehovah]."
 
         although mcconkie attacked christians for their belief in a
 triune god who is spirit and for their belief that god the father
 [jehovah] sent his son into the world, these beliefs are true. god is
 triune; he is spirit; he is "jehovah;" and he did send his son into the
 world to redeem mankind.
 
         it is obvious from this examination that it is not the
 christians who "thrash around in...darkness" about who "elohim" and
 "jehovah" are. one wonders what "holy writ" mcconkie had in mind when he
 stated that it attests to the fact that "elohim is the father, and that
 jehovah is the son." he certainly did not mean the bible which teaches
 that the father, son, and holy spirit are all the one "jehovah elohim."
 he apparently did not mean the d&c either, because chapter 109, verses
 1,4,9-10, 14,19,22,24,29,34,42,47,56,68,77 refer to the father as
 "jehovah."
 
 summary
 
         obviously joseph fielding smith's statement that the mormons
 "have a clear and perfect understanding of the nature of god" (doctrines
 of salvation, 1:279) is not accurate. the mormon gods are not the true
 god as mormonism claims, but are idols which cause their followers to
 commit adultery against god and idolatry.
 
         in answer to jesus' question, "but whom say ye that i am,"
 mormons say jesus is someone different from the jesus who is revealed in
 the bible and whom the apostles preached. therefore, anyone trusting in
 the mormon jesus is believing in "another jesus" whom paul warned about.
 
         bernard p. brockbank, of the first quorum of the seventy,
 admitted in the may 1977 issue of the ensign, a mormon publication, that
 the mormon jesus is different from the christian jesus. he stated that
 "it is true that many of the christian churches worship a different
 jesus christ than is worshipped by the mormons or the church of jesus
 christ of latter-day saints." (p. 26)
 
         the people who believe in the mormon jesus are committing
 adultery against god and idolatry. they do not have the son; therefore,
 they do not have the father, and they do not have eternal life. as the
 apostle bruce r. mcconkie rightly stated: "salvation comes only by
 worshiping the true god." (promised messiah, p. 163) mcconkie also
 rightly stated that "the mere worship of a god who has the proper
 scriptural names does not assure one that he is worshiping the true and
 living god," because the "true names of deity" can be applied to "false
 concepts of god." (mormon doctrine, p. 270) remember that the apostle
 stephen l. richards admitted that joseph smith, jr., gave "a new
 conception of god and the godhead." (contributions of joseph smith, p.
 1)
 
         it is important for the people who have left the true triune god
 revealed in the bible to repent and return to him. they must forsake the
 sins of idolatry and adultery which they are committing in mormonism.
 the bible says:
 
   "...all that forsake thee shall be ashamed, and they that depart from
   me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken the lord
   [jehovah], the fountain of living waters. (jer. 17:13)
 
   "and it shall be, if thou do at all forget the lord [jehovah] thy god
   [elohim], and walk after other gods [elohim], and serve them, and
   worship them, i testify against you this day that ye shall surely
   perish. (deut. 8:19)
 
   "thou shalt make no covenant with...their gods [elohim]. (exod. 23:32)
 
   "...put away the strange gods [elohim] that are among you, and be
   clean, and change your garments. (gen. 35:2)
 
   "...flee from idolatry. (1 cor. 10:14)
 
         it is necessary that christians heed the warnings of the bible.
 if they do, they will not fall into the sins of adultery against god and
 idolatry. remember, to know the "only true god" is eternal life. (john
 17:3)
 
   "...their gods [elohim] shall be a snare unto you." (ju. 2:3. see also
   exod. 23:32-33)
 
 
 
 