
 in article <ifpmcx600vb986fzfr@andrew.cmu.edu> nm0w+@andrew.cmu.edu (nanci ann miller) writes:
 >emarsh@hernes-sun.eng.sun.com (eric marsh) writes:
 >> btw, the parallel universe approach implys an element of mind in the
 >> very physical reality of the universe. 
 
 >this sounds interesting... but what exactly do you mean?  
 
 well, the best thing to do is to read the book "parallel universes"
 by dr. fred wolf. 
 
 in essence, dr. wolf says that one interpretation of the sub-atomic
 particle/wave duality is that what we perceive as a wave is actually
 an infinate number of parallel universes overlaid, and in each of
 these universes there is a particle in a different location. when we
 do something to make a particle "appear," we are actually causing
 all the parallel universes to collapse into one. apparently this is
 one line of thought on the nature of qm, that is going through some
 of the scientific community.
 
 dr. wolf (and many others) claim that somehow the collapse is caused
 by the mental effort of observing the particle. this implys that
 mind is more than merely a biological phenomenon. he then extrapolates
 that if mind is an integral part of the universe, then perhaps consciousness
 is the element that gives order and form to the universe(s) it/themself(s).
 
 it all gets rather interesting, but what i find facinating is that
 this would explain the phenomenon of "magick" as practiced in my
 religion. dr. wolf speculates that the ordering functionality of mind
 could be caused by the selection of a future from an infinite number of
 possible futures; he says that this might be done by some sort of
 communication between ones current, and possible future selves. 
 i have long speculated that if magick is not merely a form of self
 delusion then perhaps it could be caused by some sort of a selection
 of one of many possible futures.
 
 i realize that this gets pretty bizarre, but it never hurts to keep 
 an open mind and at least file it all away as another possibile 
 explaination of the world in which we find ourselves. after all, the
 more we learn about the universe in which we live, the more we learn
 that it is truly a very strange place.
 
 >nanci
 
 eric
 
 