
 in article <1746.2bd37a66@paranet.fidonet.org> 
 bill.carlson@p0.f18.n104.z1.fidonet.org (bill carlson) writes:
 > since everywhere i look, zoroaster is suggested as being a probable
 > descendant of daniel; suppose you prove he wasn't.
 
 zoroaster is far older than daniel. if anything, one could claim that,
 in a sense, daniel is a descendant of zoroaster; as daniel, though being
 hebrew, has assimilated into zoroastrianism and has successfully
 introduced the religion into the tanakh of judaism. [however, the majority 
 of the book is in hellenistic aramaic (not babylonian aramaic) and only has
 kethuvim or writing status.]
 
 ref: encyclopedia of religion, mircea eliade:
 
 daniel, or, in hebrew, daniyye'l; hero of the biblical book that bears his name.
 daniel is presented as a jew in the babylonian exile who achieved notoriety in
 the royal court for his dream interpretations and cryptography and for his
 salvation from death in a lion's pit. he also appears in the last chapters of
 the book as the revealer of divine mysteries and of the timetables of israel's
 restoration to national-religious autonomy. as a practitioner of oneiromancy in
 the court, described in daniel 1-6 (written in the third person), daniel per-
 forms his interpretations alone, while as a visionary-apocalyptist, in daniel
 7-12 (written in the first person), he is in need of an angel to help him
 decode his visions and mysteries of the future. it is likely that the name
 daniel is pseudonymous, a deliberate allusion to a wise and righteous man known
 from ugaritic legend and earlier biblical tradition. (ez. 14:4,28:3).
   the authorship of the book is complicated not only by the diverse narrative
 voices and content but by its language: daniel 1:1-2:4a and 8-12 are written in
 hebrew, whereas daniel 2:4b-7:28 is in aramaic. the language division parallels
 the subject division (daniel 1-6 concerns legends and dream interpretations;
 7-12 concerns apocalyptic visions and interpretations of older prophecies). the
 overall chronological scheme as well as internal thematic balances (daniel 2-7
 is chiliastically related) suggest an attempt at redactional unity. after the
 prefatory tale emphasizing the life in court and the loyalty of daniel and some
 youths to their ancestral religion, a chronological ordering is discernable: a
 sequence from king nebuchadrezzar to darius is reported (dn. 7-12). much of
 this royal dating and even some of the tales are problematic: for example,
 daniel 4 speaks of nebuchadrezzar's transformation into a beast, a story that
 is reported in the qumran scrolls of nabonidus; belshazzar is portrayed as the
 last king of babylon, although he was never king; and darius is called a mede
 who conquered babylon and is placed before cyrus ii of persia, although no such
 darius is known (the medes followed the persians, and darius is the name of
 several persian kings). presumably the episodes of daniel 2-6, depicting a
 series of monarchical reversals, episodes of ritual observances, and reports of
 miraculous deliverances were collected in the seleucid period (late fourth to
 mid-second century bce) in order to reinvigorate waning jewish hopes in divine
 providence and encourage steadfast faith.
   the visions of daniel 7-12, reporting events from the reign of belshazzar to
 that of cyrus ii (but actually predicting the overthrow of seleucid rule in
 palestine), were collected and published during the reign of antiochus iv prior
 to the maccabean revolt, for it was then (beginning in 168 bce) that the jews
 were put to the test concerning their allegiance to judaism and their ancestral
 traditions, and many refused to desecrate the statues of moses and endured a
 martyr's death for their resolute trust in divine dominion. all of the visions
 of daniel dramatize this dominion in different ways: for example, via images of
 the enthronement of a god of judgment, with a "son of man" invested with rule
 (this figure was interpreted by jews as michael the archangel and by christians
 as christ), in chapter 7; via zodiacal images of cosmic beasts with bizarre
 manifestations, as in chapter 8; or via complex reinterpretations of ancient
 prophecies, especially those of jeremiah 25:9-11, as found in daniel 9-12.
   the imagery of the four beasts in chapter 7 (paralleled by the image of four
 metals in chapter 2), representing four kingdoms to be overthrown by a fifth
 monarchy of divine origin, is one of the enduring images of the book; it sur-
 vived as a prototype of jewish and christian historical and apocalyptic schemes
 to the end of the middle ages. the role and power of this imagery in the
 fifteenth and sixteenth century work of the exegete isaac abravanel, the
 scientist isaac newton, and the philosopher jean bodin and among the fifth
 monarchy men of seventeenth century england, for example, is abiding testimony
 to the use of this ancient topos in organizing the chiliastic imagination of
 diverse thinkers and groups. the schema is still used to this day by various
 groups predicting the apocalyptic advent.
   the encouragement in the face of religious persecution that is found and
 propagandized in daniel 11-12 contains a remarkable reinterpretation of isaiah
 52:13-53:12, regarding the suffering servant of god not as all israel but as
 the select faithful. neither the opening stories about daniel and the youths nor
 the final martyrological allusions advocate violence or revolt; they rather
 advocate a stance of piety, civil disobedience, and trustful resignation.
 victory for the faithful is in the hands of the archangel michael, and the
 martyrs will be resurrected and granted astral immortality. persumably the
 circles behind the book were not the same as the maccabean fighters and may
 reflect some proto-pharisaic group of hasidim, or pietists. the themes of
 resistance to oppression, freedom of worship, preservation of monotheistic
 integrity, the overthrow of historical dominions, and the acknowledgement of
 the god of heaven recur throughout the book and have served as a token of
 trust for the faithful in their darkest hour.
 
 zarathushtra, founder of the religion know as zoroastrianism or mazdaism (from
 mazda or ahura mazda, the name of the god prophesied by zarathushtra.) the
 etymology and history of zarathushtra, the avestan and oldest form of the name,
 as uncertain, both in various iranian languages and in related forms else-
 where. there may have been an old persian form, zara-ushtra, from which the
 greek form, zoroastres, may be derived, and there may have existed an old
 iranian form, zarat-ushtra, to which may be linked the middle iranian zrdrwsht,
 several middle persian forms (such as zrtwsht), and the new persian zardusht.
 we can state with certainty only that the second half of the name, ushtra,
 means "camel." the form zoroaster, derived from the greek zoroastres, was used
 traditionally in european culture until the eighteenth century, when
 zarathustra, closer to the original (and as found in nietzsche), came into
 common use after the rediscovery of the avesta, the collection of sacred books
 of zoroastrianism, and the resulting studies in iranian philology. [see avesta.]
   notwithstanding the great and continued popularity of zarathushtra, even in
 western culture, the sources available to us are few, extremely fragmented,
 and heterogeneous. our principle sources are the five gathas ("songs"),
 attributed to zarathushtra himself and included in the yasna section of the
 avesta: gatha ahunavaiti (yasna 28-34), gatha ushtavaiti (yasna 43-46), gatha
 spentamainyu (yasna 47-50), gatha vokukhshathra (yasna 51), and gatha
 vashishtoishti (yasna 53), the last of which was probably written after the
 prophet's death.
   other sources of considerable, albeit varying, importance are the younger
 avesta and the remaining zoroastrian religious literature, in particular the
 pahlavi texts of the ninth and tenth centures ce. although the achaemenid
 inscriptions (sixth to fourth centures bce) never mention zarathushtra, he is
 mentioned by some greek sources of the time (not, however, by herodotus, who
 seems unaware of him).
   the avesta does not provide any direct or explicit data concerning the true
 chronological history of zarathushtra. but the text is useful in an indirect
 way, as it clearly implies that the environment in which zoroastrianism arose
 was not that of iran under the medes or the persians. the greek sources, on the
 other hand, do provide some information concerning the time of zarathushtra,
 although from a historical point of view they are unreliable. some place him
 six thousand years before the trojan war (xanthus of lydia, eudoxus of cnidus,
 hermippus, hermodorus, aristotle, plutarch, diogenes laertius, and pliny). the
 account by xanthus of lydia, however, has also been interpreted by some to mean
 six hundred, rather than six thousand, years before the expedition of xerxes
 against greece. this interpretation is favored by diogenes laertius, who makes
 reference to xanthus, but although a few scholars (a. s. shabazi, helmut
 humbach) have recently attempted to rehabilitate it under various pretexts, it
 is generally rejected.
   although the historical value of the greek sources is negligible, they are
 nonetheless important in that they show that the millenarian doctrine of history
 of the cosmos had already been developed in iran by the achaemenid period, as
 the above account would seem to demonstrate. they also show that by this time
 zarathushtra was already seen as an almost mythical figure, one from an
 extremely distant past. all of this leads to the conclusion that the prophet
 could not have belonged to a historical period contemporary with, or even close
 to, that of the achaemenids.
   later zoroastrian sources, the pahlavi texts, do provide an absolute chrono-
 logy for zarathushtra, one that was also accepted by some arab authors. accord-
 ing to these sources, zarathushtra lived 300 or 258 years before alexander.
 again, scholars are divided on the validity of the chronology; some view it as
 historically reliable while others believe that it is devoid of historical
 justification. the most convincing arguments, however, seem to support the
 latter position. the figure of 258 years is accurate only on the surface
 because it represents, in fact, the more general one of 300, which was employed
 by sasanid propagandists to locate zarathushtra's lifetime roughly around the
 beginning of iranian domination. for a number of reasons connected with complex
 problems inherent in the iranian chronology, there was also a desire on the
 part of the sasanid propagandists to avoid any millenarian threat. in this
 context, zarathushtra, whom tradition places early in the ninth millennium after
 the beginning of the cosmos, converted vishtaspa at the age of forty-two, and
 vishtaspa's conversion was viewed by some as the beginning of the millennium
 (thus explaining the double date of 300 and 258 years before alexander).
   given the unreliability of the few available sources, we are forced to
 reconstruct an absolute chronology on the basis of other elements, principally
 on the contention that zarathushtra must have lived a few centuries before cyrus
 the great, cambyses, and darius, as there is no mention in the avesta of the
 great political achievements that took place in western iran in the middle of
 the first millennium bce. nor is there any mention of the history of that
 period, which was to lead iran to a position of such predominance. at the same
 time, for a number of reasons, going back much further in history would not be
 justified. consequently, the traditionally accepted theory of placing zara-
 thushtra around the beginning of the first millennium bce appears to be the
 most legitimate.
   as to zarathushtra's land of origin, many scholars agree, on the basis of
 valid arguments, that he must have come from eastern iran. some have held that
 he was a mede, largely because of a late iranian tradition linking zarathushtra
 with azerbaijan, but also because of linguistic reasons, based on the language
 of the avesta. this hypothesis, however, should be discarded, as we can suppose,
 both on historical and linguistic grounds, that zarathushtra came from the east,
 even though we do not know precisely from which region. there is a considerable
 variety of opinion on this particular matter, including the improbable view
 that he came from chorasmia, or present-day khorezm, or from a wider chorasmian
 region, reaching as far as the oases of merv and herat. most likely, however,
 zarathushtra's land of origin is somewhere in the vast area stretching from the
 hindu kush mountain range to the more southern regions of bactria and arachosia
 (modern qandahar), as well as drangiana (the area of lake helmand). it would
 thus be located in what is now afghanistan or in the border regions of iran.
   zarathushtra himself tells us that he belonged to the priestly caste (yasna
 33.6). he was a zaotar (cf. sanskrit hotr), that is, a priest belonging to a
 specific group connected with a school that produced very elaborate and learned
 religious poetry. even in the so-called younger avesta he is described as an
 athravan (yashts 13.94), a more general term encompassing the entire priestly
 caste. to enter it he had undergone a long and rigid training, which he used
 to lend dignity (as in the gathas) to the contents of his new message, the
 product of a great and original ethical mind.
   zarathushtra also belongs to that venerable priestly tradition, linking india
 to iran in another way, by centering his teachings on the praise of the ashavan,
 or "possessor of asha," that is, the one who, as in the vedic rtavan, seeks
 truth and masters it, thus becoming ashavan in this life - almost an initiate -
 and blessed after death. any good follower of such teachings seeks the "vision
 of asha," just as those chosing the right path in vedic india aspired to the
 "vision of the sun," a manifestation of rta. behind these concepts and this
 language lies the great tradition of "aryan mysticism," that is, of indo-iranian
 mysticism.
   zarathushtra's greatness, however, does not lie in his having belonged to a
 particular religious tradition. rather, it lies in the innovation and strength
 of his message, which was in itself a break in the tradition, one that force-
 fully and effectively introduced two great revolutionary ideas: dualistic
 monotheism (the wise lord who fathers two twin spirits, the beneficent and the
 evil); and the expectation of a transfiguration (av., frashokereti; pahl.,
 frashgird) of life and existence. [see frashokereti] 
   both his monotheistic and dualistic ideas and his particular soteriological
 doctrine deeply separate zarathushtra's teachings from the indo-iranian tradi-
 tions of his upbringing. they exemplify his rebellion against a formalistic
 and ritualistic religion that did not provide adequate answers to the problem
 of evil. because of his basic tenets, zarathushtra, who advocated an inward
 religiosity and the right of the individual to resist the imperatives of tradi-
 tion, can be numbered among the greatest of religious figures.
   another original facet of zarathushtra's message, one that is not easy to
 understand but which, however, holds the key to a deeper understanding of the
 complex intellectual and poetic structure of the gathas, is the doctrine of the
 amesha spentas, the "beneficent immortals." these are spiritualizations of the
 abstract notions of good thought, best truth, desirable power, bounteous
 devotion, wholeness, and immortality, all of which operate according to a
 system of interrelations and correlations and can simultaneously be the
 manifestations of a divinity and of human virtue. [see amesha spentas.]
   other than the names of his father, pourushaspa ("possessing gray horses"),
 and of his mother, dughdova ("one who has milked"), we know almost nothing of
 zarathushtra's life. a late pahlavi text also give the names of four brothers.
 according to tradition, zarathushtra left home at the age of twenty, and at
 thirty he was subject to a revelation, both through an intense and powerful
 inspiration and through a vision. only after ten years had passed, however, did
 he succeed in converting a cousin of his, maidhyoimah, to his beliefs. he was
 strongly opposed in his native land by kavis, karapans, and usijs, priestly
 groups associated with traditional teachings and practices. this hostility
 caused him to leave his region (yasna 46:1) and to seek refuge at the court of
 kavi vishtaspa, a ruler who had been converted to the new religion together with
 his wife, hutaosa, when the prophet, according to tradition, was forty-two
 years old. we also know the name of a son, isat vastra ("desiring pastures"),
 and of three daughters born of his first wife, as well as the names of two more
 sons, urvatatnara ("commanding men") and hvarecithra ("sun-faced"), born of
 his second wife, hvovi, a member of the influential hvogva ("possessing good
 cattle") family. two other figures belonging to the hvogva family are mentioned:
 frashaoshtra and jamaspa, the former as hvovi's father, and the latter as the
 husband of the third daughter of the prophet, pouruchista ("very thoughtful"),
 whose wedding is celebrated in the fifth hymm in the gathas (yasna 53). again,
 according to tradition, zarathushtra died at the age of seventy-seven. he was
 assassinated by a karapan, a priest of the old religion, who belonged to the
 tuirya tribe and was called tur i bradres (his name is known only in the pahlavi
 form).
   the paucity of information on the prophet's life is compensated by a tradi-
 tion, rich in legendary detail, that arose through the centuries in zoroastrian
 communities. the main texts documenting the tradition are the seventh book of
 the denkard, a pahlavi work dating from the ninth century ce, as well as
 passages from other pahlavi texts and a new persian work from the thirteenth
 century, the zarathusht-nama (book of zarathushtra), written by zaratusht-i
 bahram-i pazhdu. mythical and ritual elements prevail in the later legends about
 zarathushtra, which idealize him into a symbol and make him the archetype of the
 perfect man.
   zarathushtra's great popularity in the ancient world continued throughout the
 renaissance until the enlightenment. during the classical and hellenistic
 periods he was viewed as a wise man, a typical representative of an "alien
 wisdom," a master of the secrets of heaven and earth, a seer, astrologer,
 psychologist, and wonder worker. pythagorean thinkers went so far as to see the
 influence of zarathushtra on pythagoras himself, and the academicians always
 openly admired the persian thinker who founded the school of the magi and
 advocated a doctrine of dualism. earliest christianity viewed zarathushtra as
 a precursor of the christian faith, one who not only prophesied, as had the
 biblical prophets, the advent of the messiah but also predicted the supernatural
 sign of his coming, the star that was to appear in the east and guide the three
 magi to the manger in bethlehem. [see magi.] this christian interpretation is
 derived from the zoroastrian doctrine of the saoshyant, the savior of the
 future. [see saoshyant.] later, however, religious struggles arose during the
 sasanid empire in persia (third to seventh centuries ce), which linked the
 spread of christianity with the roman empire. zarathushtra's popularity in the
 christian world began to decline. the iranian prophet, who had been praised
 often by the gnostic schools and who had been seen by mani as one of the three
 great messengers from the past, was now seen, instead, as a leader of imposture
 and heresy, a teacher of the diabolic arts of witchery. but during the renaiss-
 ance and the enlightenment, european cultures reverted to the image of zara-
 thushtra that had come down through classical and hellenistic antiquity. he was
 viewed, once again, as a great and wise man, as the author of the _chaldean
 oracles_ and probably inventor of qabbalah, as a teacher of astrology, as a
 possible bridge between christianity and platonism, and, at times (as in
 voltaire), as a symbol of non-christian wisdom.
   after western philology rediscovered zarathushtra during the eighteenth and
 nineteenth centuries, friedrich nietzsche, in an intentional paradox, gave
 the name zarathustra to the hero of his work _also sprach zarathustra_ (1883-
 1892). nietzsche saw the iranian prophet as the first to have discovered the
 true motive force underlying all things, that is, the eternal struggle between
 good and evil. [see also zoroastrianism]
 