
           
           
                             the law of retribution
           
                violent crime, racism, bigotry, domestic abuse, rape, 
           police brutality and oppression, human rights violations, 
           etc., etc., continue to get worse and worse in spite of more 
           and more man-made laws on all levels from local ordinances to 
           international law. 
           
                the man-made laws are not working. 
 
                "what we have here is failure to communicate!"  
           perpetrators remain ignorant of the law--a universal, cosmic, 
           and spiritual law--the "law of retribution" or "karma": 
           
                "be not deceived; god is not mocked: for whatsoever a 
           man soweth, that shall he also reap."  galatians 6:7, kjv. 
     
                "he that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity; 
           he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword.  
           here is the patience and faith of the saints."  revelation 
           13:10, kjv. 
     
                "what goes around comes around."
 
                this law of the universe is just as real as the physical 
           law that for every action there is an equal and opposite 
           reaction. 
     
                it is the enforcement, the teeth, behind the "golden 
           rule": "do unto others as you would have others do unto you." 
 
                all perpetrators in the present will become victims in 
           the future, most likely in a future incarnation.  most 
           victims in the present were perpetrators in the past, usually 
           during a previous life. 
           
                what is needed is a massive worldwide program of 
           education to teach all present and potential perpetrators, in 
           a convincing manner (with sufficient supporting evidence), 
           that what they do to others will be done to them, in this 
           life or the next. 
           
                anyone who doubts the fact of reincarnation, and the 
           related "law of retribution", should read books such as "here 
           and hereafter", by ruth montgomery, which describes several 
           kinds of evidence supporting reincarnation, including 
           hypnotic regression to past lives [about 50% accurate; the 
           subconscious mind can sometimes make things up, especially 
           with a bad hypnotist], spontaneous recall (especially by 
           young children, some of whom can identify their most recent 
           previous relatives, homes, possessions, etc.), dream recall 
           of past life experiences, deja vu (familiarity with a far off 
           land while traveling there for the first time on vacation), 
           the psychic readings of the late edgar cayce, and even 
           supporting statements from the christian bible including 
           matthew 17:11-13 (john the baptist was the reincarnation of 
           elias.) and john 9:1-2 (how can a person possibly sin before 
           he is born, unless he lived before?!). 
           
                strong interests, innate talents, strong phobias, etc., 
           typically originate from a person's past lives.  for example, 
           a strong fear of swimming in or traveling over water usually 
           results from having drowned at the end of a previous life.  
           and sometimes a person will take an immediate dislike to 
           another person being met for the first time in their present 
           life, because of a bad encounter with him during a previous 
           incarnation. 
 
                people would behave much better toward each other if 
           they knew that their actions in the present will surely be 
           reaped by them in the future, or in a future incarnation! 
 
  
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (books like "here and 
           hereafter", by ruth montgomery). 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important information is encouraged. 
 
 
                                    robert e. mcelwaine
                                    2nd initiate in eckankar,
                                       (but not an agent thereof)
 
           
 