
 
 
      the following partial summary of a theory of the universe includes a
 little-known description of the creation of our solar system:
 
 
                       larsonian astronomy and physics
 
                orthodox physicists, astronomers, and astrophysicists 
           claim to be looking for a "unified field theory" in which all 
           of the forces of the universe can be explained with a single 
           set of laws or equations.  but they have been systematically 
           ignoring or suppressing an excellent one for 30 years! 
 
                the late physicist dewey b. larson's comprehensive 
           general unified theory of the physical universe, which he 
           calls the "reciprocal system", is built on two fundamental 
           postulates about the physical and mathematical natures of 
           space and time: 
     
                (1) "the physical universe is composed entirely of one 
           component, motion, existing in three dimensions, in discrete 
           units, and in two reciprocal forms, space and time." 
     
                (2) "the physical universe conforms to the relations of 
           ordinary commutative mathematics, its magnitudes are 
           absolute, and its geometry is euclidean." 
     
                from these two postulates, larson developed a complete 
           theoretical universe, using various combinations of 
           translational, vibrational, rotational, and vibrational-
           rotational motions, the concepts of in-ward and out-ward 
           scalar motions, and speeds in relation to the speed of light 
           (which larson called "unit velocity" and "the natural 
           datum"). 
       
                at each step in the development, larson was able to 
           match objects in his theoretical universe with objects in the 
           real physical universe, (photons, sub-atomic particles 
           [incomplete atoms], charges, atoms, molecules, globular star 
           clusters, galaxies, binary star systems, solar systems, white 
           dwarf stars, pulsars, quasars, etc.), even objects not yet 
           discovered then (such as exploding galaxies, and gamma-ray 
           bursts). 
           
                and applying his theory to his new model of the atom, 
           larson was able to precisely and accurately calculate inter-
           atomic distances in crystals and molecules, compressibility 
           and thermal expansion of solids, and other properties of 
           matter. 
 
                all of this is described in good detail, with-out fancy 
           complex mathematics, in his books. 
     
 
 
           books of dewey b. larson
           
                the following is a complete list of the late physicist 
           dewey b. larson's books about his comprehensive general 
           unified theory of the physical universe.  some of the early 
           books are out of print now, but still available through 
           inter-library loan. 
     
                "the structure of the physical universe" (1959) 
     
                "the case against the nuclear atom" (1963)
     
                "beyond newton" (1964) 
     
                "new light on space and time" (1965) 
     
                "quasars and pulsars" (1971) 
     
                "nothing but motion" (1979) 
                     [a $9.50 substitute for the $8.3 billion "super 
                                                             collider".] 
                     [the last four chapters explain chemical bonding.]
 
                "the neglected facts of science" (1982) 
      
                "the universe of motion" (1984)
                     [final solutions to most all astrophysical
                                                             mysteries.] 
       
                "basic properties of matter" (1988)
 
                all but the last of these books were published by north 
           pacific publishers, p.o. box 13255, portland, or  97213, and 
           should be available via inter-library loan if your local 
           university or public library doesn't have each of them. 
 
                several of them, including the last one, are available 
           from: the international society of unified science (isus), 
           1680 e. atkin ave., salt lake city, utah  84106.  this is the 
           organization that was started to promote larson's theory.  
           they have other related publications, including the quarterly 
           journal "reciprocity". 
 
           
 
           physicist dewey b. larson's background
     
                physicist dewey b. larson was a retired engineer 
           (chemical or electrical).  he was about 91 years old when he 
           died in may 1989.  he had a bachelor of science degree in 
           engineering science from oregon state university.  he 
           developed his comprehensive general unified theory of the 
           physical universe while trying to develop a way to compute 
           chemical properties based only on the elements used. 
     
                larson's lack of a fancy "ph.d." degree might be one 
           reason that orthodox physicists are ignoring him, but it is 
           not a valid reason.  sometimes it takes a relative outsider 
           to clearly see the forest through the trees.  at the same 
           time, it is clear from his books that he also knew orthodox 
           physics and astronomy as well as any physicist or astronomer, 
           well enough to point out all their contradictions, ad hoc 
           assumptions, principles of impotence, in-consistencies, etc.. 
      
                larson did not have the funds, etc. to experimentally 
           test his theory.  and it was not necessary for him to do so.  
           he simply compared the various parts of his theory with other 
           researchers' experimental and observational data.  and in 
           many cases, his explanation fit better. 
     
                a self-consistent theory is much more than the orthodox 
           physicists and astronomers have!  they claim to be looking 
           for a "unified field theory" that works, but have been 
           ignoring one for over 30 years now! 
     
                "modern physics" does not explain the physical universe 
           so well.  some parts of some of larson's books are full of 
           quotations of leading orthodox physicists and astronomers who 
           agree.  and remember that "epicycles", "crystal spheres", 
           "geocentricity", "flat earth theory", etc., also once seemed 
           to explain it well, but were later proved conceptually wrong. 
     
     
                prof. frank h. meyer, professor emeritus of uw-superior, 
           was/is a strong proponent of larson's theory, and was (or 
           still is) president of larson's organization, "the 
           international society of unified science", and editor of 
           their quarterly journal "reciprocity".  he moved to 
           minneapolis after retiring. 
     
 
 
           "super collider" boondoggle!
           
                i am against contruction of the "superconducting super 
           collider", in texas or anywhere else.  it would be a gross 
           waste of money, and contribute almost nothing of "scientific" 
           value. 
     
                most physicists don't realize it, but, according to the 
           comprehensive general unified theory of the late physicist 
           dewey b. larson, as described in his books, the strange goofy 
           particles ("mesons", "hyperons", alleged "quarks", etc.) 
           which they are finding in existing colliders (fermi lab, 
           cern, etc.) are really just atoms of anti-matter, which are 
           created by the high-energy colliding beams, and which quickly 
           disintegrate like cosmic rays because they are incompatible 
           with their environment. 
     
                a larger and more expensive collider will only create a 
           few more elements of anti-matter that the physicists have not 
           seen there before, and the physicists will be even more 
           confused than they are now! 
     
                are a few more types of anti-matter atoms worth the $8.3 
           billion cost?!!  don't we have much more important uses for 
           this wasted money?! 
     
      
                another thing to consider is that the primary proposed 
           location in texas has a serious and growing problem with some 
           kind of "fire ants" eating the insulation off underground 
           cables.  how much poisoning of the ground and ground water 
           with insecticides will be required to keep the ants out of 
           the "supercollider"?! 
     
           
                naming the "super collider" after ronald reagon, as 
           proposed, is totally absurd!  if it is built, it should be 
           named after a leading particle physicist. 
       
 
 
           larsonian anti-matter
           
                in larson's comprehensive general unified theory of the 
           physical universe, anti-matter is not a simple case of 
           opposite charges of the same types of particles.  it has more 
           to do with the rates of vibrations and rotations of the 
           photons of which they are made, in relation to the 
           vibrational and rotational equivalents of the speed of light, 
           which larson calls "unit velocity" and the "natural datum". 
      
                in larson's theory, a positron is actually a particle of 
           matter, not anti-matter.  when a positron and electron meet, 
           the rotational vibrations (charges) and rotations of their 
           respective photons (of which they are made) neutralize each 
           other. 
       
                in larson's theory, the anti-matter half of the physical 
           universe has three dimensions of time, and only one dimension 
           of space, and exists in a reciprocal relationship to our 
           material half. 
        
 
 
           larsonian relativity
           
                the perihelion point in the orbit of the planet mercury 
           has been observed and precisely measured to advance at the 
           rate of 574 seconds of arc per century.  531 seconds of this 
           advance are attributed via calculations to gravitational 
           perturbations from the other planets (venus, earth, jupiter, 
           etc.).  the remaining 43 seconds of arc are being used to 
           help "prove" einstein's "general theory of relativity". 
     
                but the late physicist dewey b. larson achieved results 
           closer to the 43 seconds than "general relativity" can, by 
           instead using "special relativity".  in one or more of his 
           books, he applied the lorentz transformation on the high 
           orbital speed of mercury. 
     
                larson totally rejected "general relativity" as another 
           mathematical fantasy.  he also rejected most of "special 
           relativity", including the parts about "mass increases" near 
           the speed of light, and the use of the lorentz transform on 
           doppler shifts, (those quasars with red-shifts greater than 
           1.000 really are moving faster than the speed of light, 
           although most of that motion is away from us in time.). 
      
                in larson's comprehensive general unified theory of the 
           physical universe, there are three dimensions of time instead 
           of only one.  but two of those dimensions can not be measured 
           from our material half of the physical universe.  the one 
           dimension that we can measure is the clock time.  at low 
           relative speeds, the values of the other two dimensions are 
           negligible; but at high speeds, they become significant, and 
           the lorentz transformation must be used as a fudge factor. 
           [larson often used the term "coordinate time" when writing 
           about this.] 
     
      
                in regard to "mass increases", it has been proven in 
           atomic accelerators that acceleration drops toward zero near 
           the speed of light.  but the formula for acceleration is 
           acceleration = force / mass, (a = f/m).  orthodox physicists 
           are ignoring the third factor: force.  in larson's theory, 
           mass stays constant and force drops toward zero.  force is 
           actually a motion, or combinations of motions, or relations 
           between motions, including inward and outward scalar motions.  
           the expansion of the universe, for example, is an outward 
           scalar motion inherent in the universe and not a result of 
           the so-called "big bang" (which is yet another mathematical 
           fantasy). 
     
                                     
           
           the universe of motion
 
                i wish to recommend to everyone the book "the universe 
           of motion", by dewey b. larson, 1984, north pacific 
           publishers, (p.o. box 13255, portland, oregon  97213), 456 
           pages, indexed, hardcover. 
     
                it contains the astrophysical portions of a general 
           unified theory of the physical universe developed by that 
           author, an unrecognized genius, more than thirty years ago. 
     
                it contains final solutions to most all astrophysical 
           mysteries, including the formation of galaxies, binary and 
           multiple star systems, and solar systems, the true origin of 
           the "3-degree" background radiation, cosmic rays, and gamma-
           ray bursts, and the true nature of quasars, pulsars, white 
           dwarfs, exploding galaxies, etc.. 
     
                it contains what astronomers and astrophysicists are all 
           looking for, if they are ready to seriously consider it with 
           open minds! 
     
                the following is an example of his theory's success: 
           in his first book in 1959, "the structure of the physical 
           universe", larson predicted the existence of exploding 
           galaxies, several years before astronomers started finding 
           them.  they are a necessary consequence of larson's 
           comprehensive theory.  and when quasars were discovered, he 
           had an immediate related explanation for them also. 
     
 
  
           gamma-ray bursts
 
                astro-physicists and astronomers are still scratching 
           their heads about the mysterious gamma-ray bursts.  they were 
           originally thought to originate from "neutron stars" in the 
           disc of our galaxy.  but the new gamma ray telescope now in 
           earth orbit has been detecting them in all directions 
           uniformly, and their source locations in space do not 
           correspond to any known objects, (except for a few cases of 
           directional coincidence). 
     
                gamma-ray bursts are a necessary consequence of the 
           general unified theory of the physical universe developed by 
           the late physicist dewey b. larson.  according to page 386 of 
           his book "the universe of motion", published in 1984, the 
           gamma-ray bursts are coming from supernova explosions in the 
           anti-matter half of the physical universe, which larson calls 
           the "cosmic sector".  because of the relationship between the 
           anti-matter and material halves of the physical universe, and 
           the way they are connected together, the gamma-ray bursts can 
           pop into our material half anywhere in space, seemingly at 
           random.  (this is why the source locations of the bursts do 
           not correspond with known objects, and come from all 
           directions uniformly.) 
     
                i wonder how close to us in space a source location 
           would have to be for a gamma-ray burst to kill all or most 
           life on earth!  there would be no way to predict one, nor to 
           stop it! 
     
                perhaps some of the mass extinctions of the past, which 
           are now being blamed on impacts of comets and asteroids, were 
           actually caused by nearby gamma-ray bursts! 
     
 
 
           larsonian binary star formation
           
                about half of all the stars in the galaxy in the 
           vicinity of the sun are binary or double.  but orthodox 
           astronomers and astrophysicists still have no satisfactory 
           theory about how they form or why there are so many of them. 
     
                but binary star systems are actually a likely 
           consequence of the comprehensive general unified theory of 
           the physical universe developed by the late physicist dewey 
           b. larson. 
     
                i will try to summarize larsons explanation, which is 
           detailed in chapter 7 of his book "the universe of motion" 
           and in some of his other books. 
     
                first of all, according to larson, stars do not generate 
           energy by "fusion".  a small fraction comes from slow 
           gravitational collapse.  the rest results from the complete 
           annihilation of heavy elements (heavier than iron).  each 
           element has a destructive temperature limit.  the heavier the 
           element is, the lower is this limit.  a star's internal 
           temperature increases as it grows in mass via accretion and 
           absorption of the decay products of cosmic rays, gradually 
           reaching the destructive temperature limit of lighter and 
           lighter elements. 
     
                when the internal temperature of the star reaches the 
           destructive temperature limit of iron, there is a type i 
           supernova explosion!  this is because there is so much iron 
           present; and that is related to the structure of iron atoms 
           and the atom building process, which larson explains in some 
           of his books [better than i can]. 
     
                when the star explodes, the lighter material on the 
           outer portion of the star is blown outward in space at less 
           than the speed of light.  the heavier material in the center 
           portion of the star was already bouncing around at close to 
           the speed of light, because of the high temperature.  the 
           explosion pushes that material over the speed of light, and 
           it expands outward in time, which is equivalent to inward in 
           space, and it often actually disappears for a while. 
     
                over long periods of time, both masses start to fall 
           back gravitationally.  the material that had been blown 
           outward in space now starts to form a red giant star.  the 
           material that had been blown outward in time starts to form a 
           white dwarf star.  both stars then start moving back toward 
           the "main sequence" from opposite directions on the h-r 
           diagram. 
     
                the chances of the two masses falling back into the 
           exact same location in space, making a single lone star 
           again, are near zero.  they will instead form a binary 
           system, orbiting each other. 
      
                according to larson, a white dwarf star has an inverse 
           density gradient (is densest at its surface), because the 
           material at its center is most widely dispersed (blown 
           outward) in time.   this eliminates the need to resort to 
           mathematical fantasies about "degenerate matter", "neutron 
           stars", "black holes", etc.. 
     
 
 
           larsonian solar system formation
 
                if the mass of the heavy material at the center of the 
           exploding star is relatively small, then, instead of a single 
           white dwarf star, there will be several "mini" white dwarf 
           stars (revolving around the red giant star, but probably 
           still too far away in three-dimensional time to be affected 
           by its heat, etc.).  these will become planets! 
       
                in chapter 7 of the universe of motion, larson used all 
           this information, and other principles of his comprehensive 
           general unified theory of the physical universe, to derive 
           his own version of bode's law. 
           
 
 
           "black hole" fantasy!
 
                i heard that physicist stephen w. hawking recently 
           completed a theoretical mathematical analysis of two "black 
           holes" merging together into a single "black hole", and 
           concluded that the new "black hole" would have more mass than 
           the sum of the two original "black holes". 
     
                such a result should be recognized by everyone as a red 
           flag, causing widespread doubt about the whole idea of "black 
           holes", etc.! 
     
                after reading physicist dewey b. larson's books about 
           his comprehensive general unified theory of the physical 
           universe, especially his book "the universe of motion", it is 
           clear to me that "black holes" are nothing more than 
           mathematical fantasies!  the strange object at cygnus x-1 is 
           just an unusually massive white dwarf star, not the "black 
           hole" that orthodox astronomers and physicists so badly want 
           to "prove" their theory. 
     
     
                by the way, i do not understand why so much publicity is 
           being given to physicist stephen hawking.  the physicists and 
           astronomers seem to be acting as if hawking's severe physical 
           problem somehow makes him "wiser".  it does not! 
     
                i wish the same attention had been given to physicist 
           dewey b. larson while he was still alive.  widespread 
           publicity and attention should now be given to larson's 
           theory, books, and organization (the international society of 
           unified science). 
           
           
           
           electro-magnetic propulsion
 
                i heard of that concept many years ago, in connection 
           with ufo's and unorthodox inventors, but i never was able to 
           find out how or why they work, or how they are constructed. 
     
                i found a possible clue about why they might work on 
           pages 112-113 of the book "basic properties of matter", by 
           the late physicist dewey b. larson, which describes part of 
           larson's comprehensive general unified theory of the physical 
           universe.  i quote one paragraph: 
     
                "as indicated in the preceding chapter, the development 
           of the theory of the universe of motion arrives at a totally 
           different concept of the nature of electrical resistance.  
           the electrons, we find, are derived from the environment.  it 
           was brought out in volume i [larson's book "nothing but 
           motion"] that there are physical processes in operation which 
           produce electrons in substantial quantities, and that, 
           although the motions that constitute these electrons are, in 
           many cases, absorbed by atomic structures, the opportunities 
           for utilizing this type of motion in such structures are 
           limited.  it follows that there is always a large excess of 
           free electrons in the material sector [material half] of the 
           universe, most of which are uncharged.  in this uncharged 
           state the electrons cannot move with respect to extension 
           space, because they are inherently rotating units of space, 
           and the relation of space to space is not motion.  in open 
           space, therefore, each uncharged electron remains permanently 
           in the same location with respect to the natural reference 
           system, in the manner of a photon.  in the context of the 
           stationary spatial reference system the uncharged electron, 
           like the photon, is carried outward at the speed of light by 
           the progression of the natural reference system.  all 
           material aggregates are thus exposed to a flux of electrons 
           similar to the continual bombardment by photons of radiation.  
           meanwhile there are other processes, to be discussed later, 
           whereby electrons are returned to the environment.  the 
           electron population of a material aggregate such as the earth 
           therefore stabilizes at an equilibrium level." 
           
                note that in larson's theory, uncharged electrons are 
           also massless, and are basically photons of light of a 
           particular frequency (above the "unit" frequency) spinning 
           around one axis at a particular rate (below the "unit" rate).  
           ("unit velocity" is the speed of light, and there are 
           vibrational and rotational equivalents to the speed of light, 
           according to larson's theory.)  [i might have the "above" and 
           "below" labels mixed up.] 
     
                larson is saying that outer space is filled with mass-
           less un-charged electrons flying around at the speed of 
           light! 
     
                if this is true, then the electro-magnetic propulsion 
           fields of spacecraft might be able to interact with these 
           electrons, or other particles in space, perhaps giving them a 
           charge (and mass) and shooting them toward the rear to 
           achieve propulsion. (in larson's theory, an electrical charge 
           is a one-dimensional rotational vibration of a particular 
           frequency (above the "unit" frequency) superimposed on the 
           rotation of the particle.) 
       
                the paragraph quoted above might also give a clue to 
           confused meteorologists about how and why lightning is 
           generated in clouds. 
 
 
 
           suppression of larsonian physics
 
                the comprehensive general unified theory of the physical 
           universe developed by the late physicist dewey b. larson has 
           been available for more than 30 years, published in 1959 in 
           his first book "the structure of the physical universe". 
     
                it is totally un-scientific for hawking, wheeler, sagan, 
           and the other sacred priests of the religion they call 
           "science" (or "physics", or "astronomy", etc.), as well as 
           the "scientific" literature and the "education" systems, to 
           totally ignore larson's theory has they have. 
     
                larson's theory has excellent explanations for many 
           things now puzzling orthodox physicists and astronomers, such 
           as gamma-ray bursts and the nature of quasars. 
     
                larson's theory deserves to be honestly and openly 
           discussed in the physics, chemistry, and astronomy journals, 
           in the u.s. and elsewhere.  and at least the basic principles 
           of larson's theory should be included in all related courses 
           at uw-ec, uw-madison, cambridge, cornell university, and 
           elsewhere, so that students are not kept in the dark about a 
           worthy alternative to the dogma they are being fed. 
     
           
 
                for more information, answers to your questions, etc., 
           please consult my cited sources (especially larson's books). 
 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important partial summary is encouraged. 
 
 
                                        robert e. mcelwaine
                                        b.s., physics and astronomy, uw-ec
           
 
 