
 in article <lefty-260493134641@lefty.apple.com>, lefty@apple.com (lefty) writes:
 >
 > these particular tibetans are advocating increased violence against 
 > the chinese occupiers.  are they wrong?
 
 wrong about what?   i think they are correct in thinking that a 
 well-placed bomb or six would get headlines, but i think they are 
 wrong if they think that you can set off bombs and still be a 
 buddhist.
 
 maybe what we are seeing here is that chinese cultural genocide
 against the tibetans has worked well enough that some tibetans 
 are now no longer buddhist and are instead willing to behave like
 the chinese occupiers.   every action is its own reward.
 
 > clearly the occupation of tibet _has_ been largely ignored.
 
 on the other hand, people who are aware of the occupation are mostly
 full of admiration for the peaceful way that tibetans have put up
 with it.   and what does it cost us to admire them?   zip.
 
 > are tibetans currently "people of peace"?  do they serve themselves 
 > well or badly by being so?
 
 yes they are, and whether this serves them well or not depends on 
 whether they want buddhist principles or political independence.
 and without political independence can they preserve their cultural
 and religious traditions?
 
 > would an increased level of violence make them "terrorists"?
 
 the chinese would certainly refer to them as terrorists, just as
 the hitler regime used to refer to european resistance movements
 as terrorists.
 
 > assuming that the group advocating this course is correct, and 
 > greater attention is focussed on the occupation of tibet by the 
 > chinese, are the tibetans better off as "people of peace" or
 > as "terrorists"?
 
 better off in what way?   as proponents of pacifism or as 
 proponents of political autonomy?
 
 and better off in what time-scale?   the soviet empire practised
 cultural genocide against something like a hundred small minorities,
 some of which resisted violently, and some of which did not, but
 in the end it was the soviet empire that collapsed and at least
 some of the minorities survived.
 
 now some of the minorities are fighting one another.    is that
 because they have to, or because violent resistance to an oppressive
 empire legitimized violence?
 
 jon.
 