
 
 in article <1rc9vg$9be@squick.eitech.com> ekr@squick.eitech.com (eric rescorla) writes:
 #frank, you are attempting to inject "goodness" judgements where there
 #are only "accuracy" judgements, by essentially punning on the word
 #'value' which has both meanings. 
 #
 #"useful" is a goodness judgement.  "reasonable" is an accuracy judgement. 
 #they are not the same thing at all. ("useful in making some conclusion" is 
 #an accuracy judgement again, i'm afraid.) 
 
 this is the root of the problem: i bloomin' well amn't punning on the
 word value!!!  i know it's ambiguous.  i've told you the sense in
 which i'm using it (worth, use, goodness, etc).  and value doesn't mean
 accuracy, by any stretch of the imagination.  value=result of a computation,
 is not what i mean, but i accept it as a possible misinterpretation of
 'value'.  value == accuracy comes from out of left field.  
 
 i can only understand that by '"useful in making some conclusion" is an accuracy
 judgement' you mean one can judge whether it is *really* useful in making
 that conclusion or not.   that's part of what i mean by objective
 valuation - values grounded in solid facts.  one doesn't value x for the 
 purpose y if all the evidence suggests that x doesn't really do that. the
 rest of what i mean is that the really fundamental values (e.g.  our own 
 freedom) are solid facts in themselves.
 
 consider each of the following statements:
 
 (1) the only reason that the distinction between 'accurate' and 
 'inaccurate' exists at all is that a group of people finds it useful.  
 
 (2) the main reason that science exists at all is that a group of people
 finds the distinction between 'accurate' and 'inaccurate' useful in
 dealing with phenomena.
 
 (3) scientists find simple theories with accurate predictions useful in
 modelling phenomena.
 
 where is the 'pun' of which you speak?  where am i arguing from idiom?  
 and what is wrong, if those statements are true, with concluding that "the 
 basis of science is its *judged* usefulness in dealing with phenomena, i.e. 
 'subjective' values"?    after all, what on earth is (3), if not a 
 'subjective' value judgement?  (an 'accurate' value judgement, maybe?)
 
 just to illustrate what i mean: what's the difference between saying
 'simple theories with accurate predictions are the best tools we have
 to model phenomena' and (say) 'love and intelligence are the best tools we have
 to achieve freedom'?  is one 'objective', the other not?  both are 
 judgements about value ("best"), and both have the same empirical basis, from 
 where _i_ sit.
 
 #sorry, frank, but all you're doing is
 #using the ambiguity of english to obfuscate the issue. if you
 #mean to say that science is based on value (accuracy) judgements,
 #i have no problem with that. if you mean to say that it's based
 #on value (goodness) judgements, that's nonsense. by contrast,
 #morality is clearly based on goodness judgements.
 
 i'm afraid i do mean to say that it's based on "goodness" judgements.
 "simple theories with accurate predictions are better (_better_, better) 
 tools for interpreting reality than complex theories with inaccurate 
 predictions" is a fundamental value judgement that scientists make.  a 
 relativist might say that it only holds in the reference frame of "science", 
 or of a given scientist - but it seems pretty solid and objective to me.
 
 -- 
 frank o'dwyer                                  'i'm not hatching that'
 odwyer@sse.ie                                  from "hens",  by evelyn conlon
 