
     in the king james version of the bible there are three differents words 
 translated into the word "hell".  these greek words have totally different 
 meanings.  the words are hades, tartaros, and gehenna.
 
     in bibical usage, the greek word hades is used only 11 times in the 
 new testament, and is roughly the equivalent to the old testament word sheol...
 meaning the grave or pit (compare acts 2:27 with psalms 16:10).  hades may be 
 likened to a hole in the ground. (in the bible it has nothing to do with fire!)
 
     most modern bibical translators admit that the use in the english word hell
 to translate hades and sheol are an unfortunate and misleading practice.  
 
     why?  because when seeing the word "hell" many readers impute to it the 
 traditional connotation of an ever-burning inferno, when this was never 
 remotely intended in the greek language or in old english!
 
     in its true bibical usage hades does indeed refer to the state or abode of 
 the dead, but not in the sense of spirits walking around in some sort of 
 "shadowy realm."  hades is simply the abode we call the grave.  all dead go to 
 this hell.
 
     the second "hell" of the bible, tartaros, is mentioned only once in 
 scripture, 2 pet.2:4; "for if god spared not the angels that sinned, but cast 
 them down to hell (tartaros), and delivered them into chains of darkness to be 
 reserved unto judgment..."
 
     following their rebellion to unseat god from his throne (isa.14:12-14; 
 rev.12:4), the archangel lucifer (now satan) and a third of the created angels 
 (now demons) were ejected from heaven (luke 10:18).  they were cast down to 
 tartaros, a place or condition of restraint that god has imposed on the 
 mutinous angels as they await ultimate judgment (jude 6; 1 cor.6:3).
 
     tartaros, then, is a "hell" that applies only to evil, rebellious angels or
 demons (it is interesting that the ancient greeks used this word to describe 
 the place in which zeus confined the rebellious titans).  nowhere in the bible 
 is there any mention of men being put into this particular "hell".
 
     the the third word that is translated as "hell" in the bible is gehenna. it
 comes from the hebrew gai hinnom, meaning "valley of hinniom."  hinnom is a 
 deep, narrow ravine located to the south and southwest of jerusalem.
 
     in old testament times it was a place of abominable pagan rites, including 
 infant sacrifice (it was there that the apostate kings ahaz and manasseh made 
 their children "pass through the fire" to the god molech.  the rites were 
 specifically celebrated in tophet, the "place of abhorrence," one of the chief 
 groves in the valley).
 
     king josiah of ancient judah finally put an end to these abominations.  he 
 defiled the valley, rendering it ceremonially unclean (2 kings 23:10).  later 
 the valley became the cesspool and city dump of jerusalem; a repository for 
 sewage, refuse and animal carcasses.  the bodies of dispised criminals were 
 also burned there along with the rubbish.  fires burned continuously, feeding 
 by a constant supply of garbage and refuse.
 
     aceldama, the "field of blood", purchased with the money judas received for
 the betrayal of christ (matt.27:8) was also in part of the valley of hinnom.
 
     so what does this valley called gehenna have to do with hell?  
 
     in rev.19:20: the satan inspired political dictator and a miracle-working 
 religious figure, the false prophet, working with him will resist the 
 re-establishment of the government of god by jesus christ at his second coming.
 their fate is revealed by the apostle john: "and the beast was taken, and with 
 him the false prophet...  these both were cast alive into a lake of fire 
 burning with brimstone."
     
     where will this temporary lake of fire (this "hell") be?
 
     the prophet isaiah wrote of this lake of fire prepared for the beast: "for 
 tophet (in the valley of hinnom) is ordained of old, yea for the king it is 
 prepared, he hath made it deep and large, the pile thereof is fire and wood, 
 the breath of the lord, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle it" (isa.30:33).
 
     one thousand years later, satan himself will be cast into this rekindled 
 fiery lake where the beast and false prophet were cast! (rev.20:10).
 
     but what of the wicked who have died over the millennia?  does the bible 
 say that they are now suffering fiery punishment for their sins in a lake of 
 fire?
 
     in the sequence of rev.20 the incorrigibly wicked are resurrected to be 
 thrown into the lake of fire after satan is cast there! (rev.20:15). what will 
 become of these wicked?  will they writhe in flames for eternity? 
  
     the wicked will be burned up from the intense heat of the coming gehenna 
 fire on the earth.  they wil be consumed, annihilated, destroyed!  this 
 punishment will be everlasting (permanent and final).  the bible calls it the 
 "second death" (rev.20:14; 21:8), from which there is no possibility of a 
 further resurrection.
 
     the bible does teach eternal punishment, but not eternal punishing.
                            
     the prophet malachi provides a graphic description. "for, behold, the day 
 cometh that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do 
 wickedly, shall be stubble, and the day that cometh shall burn them up..."
 (4:1).  to the righteous, god says that the wicked shall be "ashes under the 
 soles of your feet..."(mal.4:3).
 
     gehenna was a place of destruction and death, not a place of living 
 torture!  jesus was talking to jews who understood all about this gehenna or 
 valley of hinnom.  utter destruction by fire was complete.  nothing was left, 
 but ashes!
  
     every text in the bible translated from this greek word gehenna means 
 complete destruction, not living torture (not eternal life in torment)!  the 
 bible says, in romans 6:23, "the wages of sin is death", not eternal life in 
 torture.  the punishment revealed in the bible is death... the cessation of 
 life. 
     
     eternal life is the gift of god!
 