
 joakimr@ifi.uio.no (joakim ruud) writes:
 
 
 >recently, i've asked myself a rather interesting question: what right does
 >god have on our lives (always assuming there is a god, of course...!) ??
 
 >in his infinite wisdom, he made it perfectly clear that if we don't live
 >according to his rules, we will burn in hell. well, with what right can god
 >make that desicion? let's say, for the sake of argument, that god creates every
 >one of us (directly or indirectly, it doesn't matter.). what then happens, is
 >that he first creates us, and then turns us lose. well, i didn't ask to be
 >created. 
 
   i guess i ought not conclude from this, then, that since you didn't ask to
 be created, you don't care if you go to hell.  :)
 
 >let's make an analogue. if a scientist creates a unique living creature (which
 >has happened, it was even patented...!!!), does he then have the right to
 >expect it to behave in a certain matter, or die...?
 
 >who is god to impose its rules on us ? who can tell if god is really so
 >righteous as god likes us to believe? are all christians a flock of sheep,
 >unable to do otherwise that follow the rest? 
 
   i don't consider myself an unthinking sheep.  the bible says god created
 us to be in communion and obedience to him.  the first and only rule was
 to not eat of a certain tree, or else the punishment is distance from him
 and physical death.  god's intention in creating us is to have a relationship
 with us.  the bible documents god's attempts to have that relationship
 culminating in the person of jesus to bear the consequences of all sin so
 that all who accept him can have a relationship with god again: the purpose
 of creation.
 
   who is god to impose rules on us?  he's god and he created us.  i suppose
 he has a right based on who he is.  above you mention "in his infinite
 wisdom", and that's what i'd say god exemplifies.  but if you were being
 sarcastic up there, then this whole discussion is irrelevant, eh?  and if
 we believe god is infinitely wise, that belief should inform our relationship
 with him.
 