
 there are many urban legends (maybe this ought to be in the crypt 
 faq?) about what is actually sufficient to clear or declassify 
 magnetic media when used for classified data.  here is some 
 information "from the horse's mouth".
 
 (regarding the sufficient overwriting of media ("clearing") meant to 
 be *retained* within the controlled environment, or declassifying 
 the material to be reused *outside* the controlled environment,)
 
 from national telecommunications and information systems 
 security (ntiss) "advisory memorandum on office automation 
 security guidelines"  (ntissam compusec/1/87):
 
 ------
 
 "7.6.2.1 clearing of magnetic media
 
 certain types of removable media (e.g., magnetic tape, floppy disk, 
 cassettes, and magnetic cards) may be cleared by overwriting the 
 entire media one time with any one character.  floppy disks may be 
 cleared by applying a vendor's formatting program that overwrites 
 each location with a given character.
 
 fixed media (e.g., winchester disks) should be cleared by overwriting 
 at least one time with any one character.  one way to do this is by 
 applying a vendor-supplied formatting program that overwrites each 
 location on the disk with a given character, if it can be shown that 
 this program actually works as advertised.  the user should beware: 
 some programs that purport to overwrite all locations do not 
 actually do this.
 
 cleared media may be resides within the controlled facility or 
 released for destruction; however, they should be marked and 
 controlled at the level of the most restrictive sensitivity of 
 information ever recorded.
 
 7.6.2.2 declassification of magnetic media
 
 certain types of removable media can be declassified using a 
 degaussing device that has been approved for declassifying media of 
 that type.  (a list of approved devices is maintained by the nsa.)
 
 if a fixed medium (for example, a hard, or winchester, disk) is 
 operative, an approved method of declassifying the disk pack is to 
 employ an overwrite procedure which must overwrite all 
 addressable locations at least three times by writing any character, 
 then its complement (e.g., binary ones and binary zeros) 
 alternatively.
 
 when fixed  media become inoperative, it is impossible to declassify 
 the media by the overwrite method.  in this case, there are two 
 alternate procedures that may be used: (1) disassemble the disk 
 pack, and degauss each platter with the appropriate approved 
 degaussing equipment; and (2) courier the inoperative media to the 
 vendor's facility, have the magnetic media (e.g., disk platter) 
 removed in sight of the courier and returned to the courier for 
 destruction at the secure site.  the vendor can then install new 
 platters and repair any other problems with the disk unit.
 
 7.6.3 destruction of magnetic media"
 
 [see dod computer security center, "department of defense magnetic 
 remanence security guideline", csc-std-003-85  for official use 
 only]
 
 ------
 
 this and many other interesting documents (many that are more 
 informative than probably intended) on computer security procedures 
 can be obtained (free) from:
 
 executive secretary
 national telecommunications and informations
   systems security committee
 national security agency
 fort george g. meade, md  20755-6000
 
 write them!  it's fun to be on the nsa's mailing list... 
 
 -- 
 grady@netcom.com  2ef221 / 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc  58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f
 
 