
 
                              call for papers
                     the internet society symposium on
                  network and distributed system security
 
         3-4 february 1994, catamaran hotel, san diego, california
 
 the symposium will bring together people who are building software and
 hardware to provide network or distributed system security services.
 the symposium is intended for those interested in practical aspects of
 network and distributed system security, rather than in theory.  symposium
 proceedings will be published by the internet society.  topics for the
 symposium include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 *  design and implementation of services--access control, authentication,
    availability, confidentiality, integrity, and non-repudiation
    --including criteria for placing services at particular protocol
 layers.
 
 *  design and implementation of security mechanisms and support
    services--encipherment and key management systems, authorization
    and audit systems, and intrusion detection systems.
 
 *  requirements and architectures for distributed applications and
    network functions--message handling, file transport, remote
    file access, directories, time synchronization, interactive
    sessions, remote data base management and access, routing, voice and
    video multicast and conferencing, news groups, network management,
    boot services, mobile computing, and remote i/o.
 
 *  special issues and problems in security architecture, such as
    -- very large systems like the international internet, and
    -- high-speed systems like the gigabit testbeds now being built.
 
 *  interplay between security goals and other goals--efficiency,
    reliability, interoperability, resource sharing, and low cost.
 
 general chair:
    dan nessett, lawrence livermore national laboratory
 
 program chairs:
    russ housley, xerox special information systems
    rob shirey, the mitre corporation
 
 program committee:
    dave balenson, trusted information systems
    tom berson, anagram laboratories
    matt bishop, dartmouth college
    ed cain, u.s. defense information systems agency
    jim ellis, cert coordination center
    steve kent, bolt, beranek and newman
    john linn, independent consultant
    clifford neuman, information sciences institute
    michael roe, cambridge university
    rob rosenthal, u.s. national institute of standards and technology
    jeff schiller, massachusetts institute of technology
    ravi sandhu, george mason university
    peter yee, u.s. national aeronautics and space administration
 
 submissions:  the  committee seeks both original technical papers and
 proposals for panel discussions on technical and other topics of general
 interest.  technical papers should be 10-20 pages in length.  panels
 should include three or four speakers.  a panel proposal must name the
 panel chair, include a one-page topic introduction authored by the chair,
 and also include one-page position summaries authored by each speaker
 both the technical papers and the panel papers will appear in the
 proceedings.
 
 submissions must be made by 16 august 1993.  submissions should be made
 via electronic mail to
 
                    1994symposium@smiley.mitre.org.
 
 submissions may be in either of two formats:  ascii or postscript.  if
 the committee is unable to read a postscript submission, it will be
 returned and ascii requested.  therefore, postscript submissions should
 arrive well before 16 august.  if electronic submission is absolutely
 impossible, submissions should be sent via postal mail to
 
                    robert w. shirey, mail stop z202
                    the mitre corporation
                    mclean, virginia  22102-3481  usa
 
 all submissions must include both an internet electronic mail address and
 a postal address.  each submission will be acknowledged through the
 medium by which it is received.  if acknowledgment is not received within
 seven days, please contact either rob shirey <shirey@mitre.org> or
 russ housley <housley.mclean_csd@xerox.com>, or telephone mana weigand at
 mitre in mclean, 703-883-5397. 
 
 authors and panelists will be notified of acceptance by 15 october 1993.
 instructions for preparing camera-ready copy for the proceedings will be
 postal mailed at that time.  the camera-ready copy must be received by
 15 november 1993.
 