
 
 
 note:     the following was released by the white house today in
           conjunction with the announcement of the clipper chip
           encryption technology.
 
                            fact sheet
 
                   public encryption management
 
 the president has approved a directive on "public encryption
 management."  the directive provides for the following:
 
 advanced telecommunications and commercially available encryption
 are part of a wave of new computer and communications technology. 
 encryption products scramble information to protect the privacy of
 communications and data by preventing unauthorized access. 
 advanced telecommunications systems use digital technology to
 rapidly and precisely handle a high volume of communications. 
 these advanced telecommunications systems are integral to the
 infrastructure needed to ensure economic competitiveness in the
 information age.
 
 despite its benefits, new communications technology can also
 frustrate lawful government electronic surveillance.  sophisticated
 encryption can have this effect in the united states.  when
 exported abroad, it can be used to thwart foreign intelligence
 activities critical to our national interests.  in the past, it has
 been possible to preserve a government capability to conduct
 electronic surveillance in furtherance of legitimate law
 enforcement and national security interests, while at the same time
 protecting the privacy and civil liberties of all citizens.  as
 encryption technology improves, doing so will require new,
 innovative approaches.
 
 in the area of communications encryption, the u. s. government has
 developed a microcircuit that not only provides privacy through
 encryption that is substantially more robust than the current
 government standard, but also permits escrowing of the keys needed
 to unlock the encryption.  the system for the escrowing of keys
 will allow the government to gain access to encrypted information
 only with appropriate legal authorization.
 
 to assist law enforcement and other government agencies to collect
 and decrypt, under legal authority, electronically transmitted
 information, i hereby direct the following action to be taken:
 
 installation of government-developed microcircuits
 
 the attorney general of the united states, or her representative,
 shall request manufacturers of communications hardware which
 incorporates encryption to install the u.s. government-developed
 key-escrow microcircuits in their products.  the fact of law
 enforcement access to the escrowed keys will not be concealed from
 the american public.  all appropriate steps shall be taken to
 ensure that any existing or future versions of the key-escrow
 microcircuit are made widely available to u.s. communications
 hardware manufacturers, consistent with the need to ensure the
 security of the key-escrow system.  in making this decision, i do
 not intend to prevent the private sector from developing, or the
 government from approving, other microcircuits or algorithms that
 are equally effective in assuring both privacy and a secure key-
 escrow system.
 
 key-escrow
 
 the attorney general shall make all arrangements with appropriate
 entities to hold the keys for the key-escrow microcircuits
 installed in communications equipment.  in each case, the key
 holder must agree to strict security procedures to prevent
 unauthorized release of the keys.  the keys shall be released only
 to government agencies that have established their authority to
 acquire the content of those communications that have been
 encrypted by devices containing the microcircuits.  the attorney
 general shall review for legal sufficiency the procedures by which
 an agency establishes its authority to acquire the content of such
 communications.
 
 procurement and use of encryption devices
 
 the secretary of commerce, in consultation with other appropriate
 u.s. agencies, shall initiate a process to write standards to
 facilitate the procurement and use of encryption devices fitted
 with key-escrow microcircuits in federal communications systems
 that process sensitive but unclassified information.  i expect this
 process to proceed on a schedule that will permit promulgation of
 a final standard within six months of this directive. 
 
 the attorney general will procure and utilize encryption devices to
 the extent needed to preserve the government's ability to conduct
 lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure
 law enforcement communications.  further, the attorney general
 shall utilize funds from the department of justice asset forfeiture
 super surplus fund to effect this purchase.
 