
 
 
 
 
 april 16, 1993
 
 initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security proposal
 
 the clinton administration today made a major announcement on
 cryptography policy which will effect the privacy and security of
 millions of americans.  the first part of the plan is to begin a
 comprehensive inquiry into major communications privacy issues such as
 export controls which have effectively denied most people easy access to
 robust encryption, and law enforcement issues posed by new technology.
 
 however, eff is very concerned that the administration has already
 reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry, before any
 public comment or discussion has been allowed.  apparently, the
 administration is going to use its leverage to get all telephone
 equipment vendors to adopt a voice encryption standard developed by the
 national security agency.  the so-called "clipper chip" is an 80-bit,
 split key escrowed encryption scheme which will be built into chips
 manufactured by a military contractor.  two separate escrow agents would
 store users' keys, and be required to turn them over law enforcement upon
 presentation of a valid warrant.  the encryption scheme used is to be
 classified, but the chips will be available to any manufacturer for
 incorporation into its communications products.
 
      this proposal raises a number of serious concerns .
 
 first, the administration has adopted a solution before conducting an
 inquiry.  the nsa-developed clipper chip may not be the most secure
 product. other vendors or developers may have better schemes.
 furthermore, we should not rely on the government as the sole source for
 the clipper or any other chips.  rather, independent chip manufacturers
 should be able to produce chipsets based on open standards.
 
 second, an algorithm cannot be trusted unless it can be tested. yet, the
 administration proposes to keep the chip algorithm classified.  eff
 believes that any standard adopted ought to be public and open.  the
 public will only have confidence in the security of a standard that is
 open to independent, expert scrutiny.  
 
 third, while the use of the use of a split-key, dual escrowed system may
 prove to be a reasonable balance between privacy and law enforcement
 needs, the details of this scheme must be explored publicly before it is
 adopted.  what will give people confidence in the safety of their keys? 
 does disclosure of keys to a third party waive an individual's fifth
 amendment rights in subsequent criminal inquiries?  these are but a few
 of the many questions the administrations proposal raised but fails to
 answer.
 
 in sum, the administration has shown great sensitivity to the importance
 of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into digital privacy
 and security.  however, the "clipper chip" solution ought to be
 considered as part of the inquiry, and not be adopted before the
 discussion even begins.
 
 details of the proposal:
 
 escrow
 
 the 80-bit key will be divided between two escrow agents, each of whom
 hold 40-bits of each key.  the manufacturer of the communications device
 would be required to register all keys with the two independent escrow
 agents.  a key is tied to the device, however, not the person using it.
 
 upon presentation of a valid court order, the two escrow agents would
 have to turn the key parts over to law enforcement agents.  according to
 the presidential directive just issued, the attorney general will be
 asked to identify appropriate escrow agents.  some in the administration
 have suggested that one non-law enforcement federal agency (perhaps the
 federal reserve), and one non-governmental organization could be chosen,
 but there is no agreement on the identity of the agents yet.
 
 classified algorithm and the possibility of back doors
 
 the administration claims that there are no back doors -- means by which
 the government or others could break the code without securing keys from
 the escrow agents -- and that the president will be told there are no
 back doors to this classified algorithm.  in order to prove this,
 administration sources are interested in arranging for an all-star crypto
 cracker team to come in, under a security arrangement, and examine the
 algorithm for trap doors.  the results of the investigation would then be
 made public.
 
 the clipper chipset was designed and is being produced and a sole-source,
 secret contract between the national security agency and two private
 firms:  vlsi and mycotronx.  nsa work on this plan has been underway for
 about four years.  the manufacturing contract was let 14 months ago.
 
 government as market driver
 
 in order to get a market moving, and to show that the government believes
 in the security of this system, the feds will be the first big customers
 for this product.  users will include the fbi, secret service, vp al
 gore, and maybe even the president.  at today's commerce department press
 briefing, a number of people asked this question, though:  why would any
 private organization or individual adopt a classified standard that had
 no independent guaranty of security or freedom from trap doors?
 
 comprehensive policy inquiry
 
 the administration has also announced that it is about to commence an
 inquiry into all policy issues related to privacy protection, encryption,
 and law enforcement.  the items to be considered include:  export
 controls on encryption technology and the fbi's digital telephony
 proposal.  it appears that the this inquiry will be conducted by the
 national security council.  unfortunately, however, the presidential
 directive describing the inquiry is classified.  some public involvement
 in the process has been promised, but they terms have yet to be specified.
 
 from more information contact:
 
 jerry berman, executive director (jberman@eff.org)
 daniel j. weitzner, senior staff counsel (djw@eff.org)
 
 full text of the press releases and fact sheets issued by the
 administration will be available on eff's ftp site.
 
 danny weitzner                      senior staff counsel, eff
                                     +1 202 544 3077
 