
 [an article from comp.org.eff.news, effector online 5.06 - carl]
 
                        april 16, 1993
 
       initial eff analysis of clinton privacy and security  
                            proposal
 
        the clinton administration today made a major announcement 
 on cryptography policy which will effect the privacy and security of 
 millions of americans.  the first part of the plan is to begin a 
 comprehensive inquiry into major communications privacy issues 
 such as export controls which have effectively denied most people 
 easy access to robust encryption as well as law enforcement issues 
 posed by new technology.
 
        however, eff is very concerned that the administration has 
 already reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry, before 
 any public comment or discussion has been allowed.  apparently, the 
 administration is going to use its leverage to get all telephone 
 equipment vendors to adopt a voice encryption standard developed 
 by the national security agency. the so-called "clipper chip" is an 
 80-bit, split key escrowed encryption scheme which will be built into 
 chips manufactured by a military contractor.  two separate escrow 
 agents would store users' keys, and be required to turn them over 
 law enforcement upon presentation of a valid warrant.  the 
 encryption scheme used is to be classified, but they chips will be 
 available to any manufacturer for incorporation into their 
 communications products.
 
        this proposal raises a number of serious concerns .
 
        first, the administration appears to be adopting a solution 
 before conducting an inquiry.  the nsa-developed clipper chip may 
 not be the most secure product. other vendors or developers may 
 have better schemes. furthermore, we should not rely on the 
 government as the sole source for clipper or any other chips.  rather,
 independent chip manufacturers should be able to produce chipsets 
 based on open standards.
 
        second, an algorithm can not be trusted unless it can be tested. 
 yet the administration proposes to keep the chip algorithm 
 classified.  eff believes that any standard adopted ought to be public 
 and open.  the public will only have confidence in the security of a 
 standard that is open to independent, expert scrutiny.  
 
        third, while the use of the split-key, dual-escrowed 
 system may prove to be a reasonable balance between privacy and 
 law enforcement needs, the details of this scheme must be explored 
 publicly before it is adopted.  what will give people confidence in the 
 safety of their keys?  does disclosure of keys to a third party waive 
 individual's fifth amendment rights in subsequent criminal 
 inquiries?  
 
        in sum, the administration has shown great sensitivity to the 
 importance of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into 
 digital privacy and security.  however, the "clipper chip" solution 
 ought to be considered as part of the inquiry, not be adopted before 
 the discussion even begins.
 
 details of the proposal:
 
 escrow
 
 the 80-bit key will be divided between two escrow agents, each of 
 whom hold 40 bits of each key.  upon presentation of a valid 
 warrant, the two escrow agents would have to turn the key parts 
 over to law enforcement agents.  most likely the attorney general 
 will be asked to identify appropriate escrow agents.  some in the 
 administration have suggested one non-law enforcement federal 
 agency, perhaps the federal reserve, and one non-governmental 
 organization.  but, there is no agreement on the identity of the agents 
 yet.
 
 key registration would be done by the manufacturer of the 
 communications device.  a key is tied to the device, not to the person 
 using it.
 
 classified algorithm and the possibility of back doors
 
 the administration claims that there are no back door means by 
 which the government or others could break the code without 
 securing keys from the escrow agents and that the president will 
 be told there are no back doors to this classified algorithm.  in order 
 to prove this, administration sources are interested in arranging for 
 an all-star crypto cracker team to come in, under a security 
 arrangement, and examine the algorithm for trap doors.  the results 
 of the investigation would then be made public.
 
 government as market driver
 
 in order to get a market moving, and to show that the government 
 believes in the security of this system, the feds will be the first big 
 customers for this product.  users will include the fbi, secret service, 
 vp al gore, and maybe even the president. 
 
 from more information contact:
 
 jerry berman, executive director
 daniel j. weitzner, senior staff counsel
 
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 carl kadie -- i do not represent any organization; this is just me.
  = kadie@cs.uiuc.edu =
 