
 -----------------------------------------------------------
 april 16, 1993									
 washington, dc
 
                computer professionals call for public 
            debate on new government encryption initiative
 
 	computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr) 
 today called for the public disclosure of technical data 
 underlying the government's newly-announced "public encryption 
 management" initiative.  the new cryptography scheme was 
 announced today by the white house and the national institute 
 for standards and technology (nist), which will implement the 
 technical specifications of the plan.  a nist spokesman 
 acknowledged that the national security agency (nsa), the super-
 secret military intelligence agency, had actually developed the 
 encryption technology around which the new initiative is built.
 
 	according to nist, the technical specifications and the 
 presidential directive establishing the plan are classified.  to 
 open the initiative to public review and debate, cpsr today 
 filed a series of freedom of information act (foia) requests 
 with key agencies, including nsa, nist, the national security 
 council and the fbi for information relating to the encryption 
 plan.  the cpsr requests are in keeping with the spirit of the 
 computer security act, which congress passed in 1987 in order to 
 open the development of non-military computer security standards 
 to public scrutiny and to limit nsa's role in the creation of 
 such standards.
 
 	cpsr previously has questioned the role of nsa in 
 developing the so-called "digital signature standard" (dss), a 
 communications authentication technology that nist proposed for 
 government-wide use in 1991.  after cpsr sued nist in a foia 
 lawsuit last year, the civilian agency disclosed for the first 
 time that nsa had, in fact, developed that security standard.  
 nsa is due to file papers in federal court next week justifying 
 the classification of records concerning its creation of the 
 dss.
 
 	david sobel, cpsr legal counsel, called the 
 administration's apparent commitment to the privacy of 
 electronic communications, as reflected in today's official 
 statement,  "a step in the right direction."  but he questioned 
 the propriety of nsa's role in the process and the apparent 
 secrecy that has thus far shielded the development process from 
 public scrutiny.  "at a time when we are moving towards the 
 development of a new information infrastructure, it is vital 
 that standards designed to protect personal privacy be 
 established openly and with full public participation.  it is 
 not appropriate for nsa -- an agency with a long tradition of 
 secrecy and opposition to effective civilian cryptography -- to 
 play a leading role in the development process." 
 
 	cpsr is a national public-interest alliance of computer 
 industry professionals dedicated to examining the impact of 
 technology on society.   cpsr has 21 chapters in the u.s. and 
 maintains offices in palo alto, california, cambridge, 
 massachusetts and washington, dc.  for additional information on 
 cpsr, call (415) 322-3778 or e-mail <cpsr@csli.stanford.edu>.
 