 national security agency. us export restrictions. tempest 
  electromagnetic interference monitoring.  beale ciphers, a hoax?
  american cryptographic association.  rsa public-key patents.
 x-last-updated: 1993/04/16
 
 archive-name: cryptography-faq/part09
 last-modified: 1993/4/15
 
 
 faq for sci.crypt, part 9: other miscellany
 
 this is the ninth of ten parts of the sci.crypt faq. the parts are
 mostly independent, but you should read the first part before the rest.
 we don't have the time to send out missing parts by mail, so don't ask.
 notes such as ``[kah67]'' refer to the reference list in the last part.
 
 the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
 as /pub/usenet/news.answers/cryptography-faq/part[xx].  the cryptography 
 faq is posted to the newsgroups sci.crypt, sci.answers, and news.answers 
 every 21 days.
 
 
 contents:
 
 * what is the national security agency (nsa)?
 * what are the us export regulations?
 * what is tempest?
 * what are the beale ciphers, and are they a hoax?
 * what is the american cryptogram association, and how do i get in touch?
 * is rsa patented?
 * what about the voynich manuscript?
 
 
 * what is the national security agency (nsa)?
 
   the nsa is the official security body of the u.s. government. it
   was given its charter by president truman in the late 40's, and
   has continued research in cryptology till the present. the nsa is
   known to be the largest employer of mathematicians in the world,
   and is also the largest purchaser of computer hardware in the
   world. governments in general have always been prime employers of
   cryptologists. the nsa probably possesses cryptographic expertise many
   years ahead of the public state of the art, and can undoubtedly break
   many of the systems used in practice; but for reasons of national
   security almost all information about the nsa is classified.
 
   bamford's book [bamfd] gives a history of the people and operations of
   the nsa. the following quote from massey [mas88] highlights the
   difference between public and private research in cryptography:
 
   ``... if one regards cryptology as the prerogative of government,
   one accepts that most cryptologic research will be conducted
   behind closed doors. without doubt, the number of workers engaged
   today in such secret research in cryptology far exceeds that of
   those engaged in open research in cryptology. for only about 10
   years has there in fact been widespread open research in
   cryptology. there have been, and will continue to be, conflicts
   between these two research communities. open research is common
   quest for knowledge that depends for its vitality on the open
   exchange of ideas via conference presentations and publications in
   scholarly journals. but can a government agency, charged with
   responsibilities of breaking the ciphers of other nations,
   countenance the publication of a cipher that it cannot break? can
   a researcher in good conscience publish such a cipher that might
   undermine the effectiveness of his own government's code-breakers?
   one might argue that publication of a provably-secure cipher would
   force all governments to behave like stimson's `gentlemen', but one
   must be aware that open research in cryptography is fraught with
   political and ethical considerations of a severity than in most
   scientific fields. the wonder is not that some conflicts have
   occurred between government agencies and open researchers in
   cryptology, but rather that these conflicts (at least those of which
   we are aware) have been so few and so mild.''
 
 * what are the us export regulations?
 
   in a nutshell, there are two government agencies which control
   export of encryption software. one is the bureau of export
   administration (bxa) in the department of commerce, authorized by
   the export administration regulations (ear). another is the office
   of defense trade controls (dtc) in the state department, authorized
   by the international traffic in arms regulations (itar). as a rule
   of thumb, bxa (which works with cocom) has less stringent
   requirements, but dtc (which takes orders from nsa) wants to see
   everything first and can refuse to transfer jurisdiction to bxa.
 
   the newsgroup misc.legal.computing carries many interesting
   discussions on the laws surrounding cryptographic export, what
   people think about those laws, and many other complex issues which
   go beyond the scope of technical groups like sci.crypt. make sure to
   consult your lawyer before doing anything which will get you thrown in
   jail; if you are lucky, your lawyer might know a lawyer who has at
   least heard of the itar.
 
 * what is tempest?
 
   tempest is a standard for electromagnetic shielding for computer
   equipment. it was created in response to the discovery that
   information can be read from computer radiation (e.g., from a crt) at
   quite a distance and with little effort.
 
   needless to say, encryption doesn't do much good if the cleartext
   is available this way.
 
 * what are the beale ciphers, and are they a hoax?
 
   (thanks to jim gillogly for this information and john king for
   corrections.)
 
   the story in a pamphlet by j. b. ward (1885) goes: thomas
   jefferson beale and a party of adventurers accumulated a huge mass
   of treasure and buried it in bedford county, virginia, leaving
   three ciphers with an innkeeper; the ciphers describe the
   location, contents, and intended beneficiaries of the treasure.
   ward gives a decryption of the second cipher (contents) called b2;
   it was encrypted as a book cipher using the initial letters of the
   declaration of independence (doi) as key. b1 and b3 are unsolved;
   many documents have been tried as the key to b1.
 
   aficionados can join a group that attempts to solve b1 by various
   means with an eye toward splitting the treasure:
 
   the beale cypher association
   p.o. box 975
   beaver falls, pa 15010
 
   you can get the ciphers from the rec.puzzles faql by including the
   line:
 
   send index
 
   in a message to netlib@peregrine.com and following the directions.
   (there are apparently several different versions of the cipher
   floating around. the correct version is based on the 1885 pamphlet,
   says john king <kingj@hpcc01.corp.hp.com>.)
 
   some believe the story is a hoax. kruh [kru88] gives a long list of
   problems with the story. gillogly [gil80] decrypted b1 with the doi
   and found some unexpected strings, including abfdefghiijklmmnohpp.
   hammer (president of the beale cypher association) agrees that this
   string couldn't appear by chance, but feels there must be an
   explanation; gwyn (sci.crypt expert) is unimpressed with this
   string.
 
 * what is the american cryptogram association, and how do i get in touch?
 
   the aca is an organization devoted to cryptography, with an emphasis
   on cryptanalysis of systems that can be attacked either with
   pencil-and-paper or computers. its organ ``the cryptogram'' includes
   articles and challenge ciphers. among the more than 50 cipher types in
   english and other languages are simple substitution, playfair,
   vigenere, bifid, bazeries, grille, homophonic, and cryptarithm.
 
   dues are $15 for one year (6 issues); more outside of north america;
   less for students under 18 and seniors. subscriptions should be sent
   to aca treasurer, 18789 west hickory st., mundelein, il 60060.
 
 * is rsa patented?
 
   yes. the patent number is 4,405,829, filed 12/14/77, granted 9/20/83.
   for further discussion of this patent, whether it should have been
   granted, algorithm patents in general, and related legal and moral
   issues, see comp.patents and misc.legal.computing. for information
   about the league for programming freedom see [ftppf]. note that one of
   the original purposes of comp.patents was to collect questions such as
   ``should rsa be patented?'', which often flooded sci.crypt and other
   technical newsgroups, into a more appropriate forum.
 
 * what about the voynich manuscript?
 
   nelson@reed.edu (nelson minar) says there is a mailing list on the
   subject.  the address to write to subscribe to the vms mailing list
   is: <voynich-request@rand.org>
 
   the ftp archive is: rand.org:/pub/voynich
 
   there's all sorts of information about the manuscript itself, of
   course. a good bibliography can be found on the ftp site. kahn's
   "the codebreakers" gives a good introduction.
 