
 this announcement is somewhat disconcerting; it doesn't do anything
 evil in and of itself, but bodes badly for the future of open
 algorithms and standards in information security.  i won't start
 panicking until/unless des or rsa or stuff like that is prohibited, but
 i'm a little anxious.  (no doubt it won't be long before someone posts
 explaining how this just a small part of some far-ranging and
 long-lived nsa-pkp-irs-fbi-cia-handguncontrolinc-clinton conspiracy to
 subvert freedom, democracy, and mathematics.)  my feeling is that the
 administration probably isn't that worried about things like des and
 rsa and pgp and ripem, since they'll never be used by a group much
 wider than us computer geeks.
 
 the fact that this just came out now suggests one of two things:
 
 1.  the nsa has been working on this for a long time, and it only just
     now happened to be ``ready'' to release to the world at this time.
 
 2.  the nsa has been working on this for a long time, but wasn't able
     to get the bush administration to go along with this plan.  (i
     find it unlikely that this would have been because of a sympathy
     for the unescrowed use of cryptography; more likely the
     administration felt that even escrowed, secret-algorithm and, for
     all we know, trivially breakable cryptography should not be made
     widely available.)
 
 thus said clipper@csrc.ncsl.nist.gov (clipper chip announcement):
 >this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
 >information, protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
 >and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
 >electronically.  at the same time this technology preserves the
 >ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to
 >intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals. 
 
 the majority of the discussion involving this "clipper chip" seems to
 pertain to the encryption of telephone conversations.  does anyone
 know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with analog
 signals?  the language sort of suggests this, but it's hard to say.
 
 the main thing i just don't get is whether this chip implements
 symmetric or asymmetric cryptographic techniques.  anybody know?
 
 i'm guessing symmetric, but they don't get very clear about it.  if it
 is symmetric, how is it useful for anything other than link-level
 encryption with an identical chip at each end?  how can you negotiate
 a per-session key using symmetric cryptography without using a trusted
 third party who knows your key?  (or does it even use a per-session
 key?)
 
 if it's asymmetric, what about pkp's patents, which they claim cover
 all methods of doing asymmetric cryptography?  are they getting
 royalties, or is hiding infringement the real reason for keeping the
 algorithm secret? :-)
 --
 marc vanheyningen   mvanheyn@cs.indiana.edu   mime & ripem accepted
 kirk:  i won't hurt you.
 alien: you hit me!
 kirk:  well, i won't hit you again.
 