
 i saw this article posted in a local newsgroup.  i haven't seen it,
 or any followup traffic relating to it in these groups or other groups
 which i subscribe to.  so, i am posting it here so others can read it,
 check it out, and comment on it, and provide ideas for handling these
 sorts of things.
 
 i have no verification to the accuracy or lack of accuracy of this
 article, but if accurate, i find it extremely disturbing, especially in
 light of various abuses of the ssn number regarding privacy, (i understand
 it is now to be required in ca to renew a drivers license, or to register
 a car) and other proposals regarding 'smart' national identity cards,
 wiretap proposals, and such.  one simply wonders what other gems are in
 the wings ready to be sprung on the people by our government.  perhaps
 suggestions and ideas for preventing this and other such proposals from
 acquiring the force of law would be useful.  the cost simply outweighs
 any possible benefits, imo.
 
 btw, reading this makes me think of some ideas a prof denning has been
 promoting, in an even more disturbing form.
 
 that said, with no further comment, the article follows:
 
 ------------ begin included article ---------
 
 note:  this file will also be available via anonymous file
 transfer from csrc.ncsl.nist.gov in directory /pub/nistnews and
 via the nist computer security bbs at 301-948-5717.
      ---------------------------------------------------
 
                          the white house
 
                   office of the press secretary
 
 _________________________________________________________________
 
 for immediate release                           april 16, 1993
 
 
                 statement by the press secretary
 
 
 the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
 the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
 program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
 communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
 enforcement.
 
 the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
 accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
 telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.
 
 for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our
 private sector and the law enforcement community to resolve the
 tension between economic vitality and the real challenges of
 protecting americans.  rather than use technology to accommodate
 the sometimes competing interests of economic growth, privacy and
 law enforcement, previous policies have pitted government against
 industry and the rights of privacy against law enforcement.
 
 sophisticated encryption technology has been used for years to
 protect electronic funds transfer.  it is now being used to
 protect electronic mail and computer files.  while encryption
 technology can help americans protect business secrets and the
 unauthorized release of personal information, it also can be used
 by terrorists, drug dealers, and other criminals.
 
 a state-of-the-art microcircuit called the "clipper chip" has
 been developed by government engineers.  the chip represents a
 new approach to encryption technology.  it can be used in new,
 relatively inexpensive encryption devices that can be attached to
 an ordinary telephone.  it scrambles telephone communications
 using an encryption algorithm that is more powerful than many in
 commercial use today.
 
 this new technology will help companies protect proprietary
 information, protect the privacy of personal phone conversations
 and prevent unauthorized release of data transmitted
 electronically.  at the same time this technology preserves the
 ability of federal, state and local law enforcement agencies to
 intercept lawfully the phone conversations of criminals. 
 
 a "key-escrow" system will be established to ensure that the
 "clipper chip" is used to protect the privacy of law-abiding
 americans.  each device containing the chip will have two unique
 
 
                                 2
 
 
 "keys," numbers that will be needed by authorized government
 agencies to decode messages encoded by the device.  when the
 device is manufactured, the two keys will be deposited separately
 in two "key-escrow" data bases that will be established by the
 attorney general.  access to these keys will be limited to
 government officials with legal authorization to conduct a
 wiretap.
 
 the "clipper chip" technology provides law enforcement with no
 new authorities to access the content of the private
 conversations of americans.
 
 to demonstrate the effectiveness of this new technology, the
 attorney general will soon purchase several thousand of the new
 devices.  in addition, respected experts from outside the
 government will be offered access to the confidential details of
 the algorithm to assess its capabilities and publicly report
 their findings.
 
 the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of
 encryption's dual-edge sword:  encryption helps to protect the
 privacy of individuals and industry, but it also can shield
 criminals and terrorists.  we need the "clipper chip" and other
 approaches that can both provide law-abiding citizens with access
 to the encryption they need and prevent criminals from using it
 to hide their illegal activities.  in order to assess technology
 trends and explore new approaches (like the key-escrow system),
 the president has directed government agencies to develop a
 comprehensive policy on encryption that accommodates:
 
      --   the privacy of our citizens, including the need to
           employ voice or data encryption for business purposes;
 
      --   the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
           calls and data, under proper court or other legal
           order, when necessary to protect our citizens;
 
      --   the effective and timely use of the most modern
           technology to build the national information
           infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and
           the competitiveness of american industry in the global
           marketplace; and 
 
      --   the need of u.s. companies to manufacture and export
           high technology products.
 
 the president has directed early and frequent consultations with
 affected industries, the congress and groups that advocate the
 privacy rights of individuals as policy options are developed.
 
 
 
                                 3
 
 the administration is committed to working with the private
 sector to spur the development of a national information
 infrastructure which will use new telecommunications and computer
 technologies to give americans unprecedented access to
 information.  this infrastructure of high-speed networks
 ("information superhighways") will transmit video, images, hdtv
 programming, and huge data files as easily as today's telephone
 system transmits voice.
 
 since encryption technology will play an increasingly important
 role in that infrastructure, the federal government must act
 quickly to develop consistent, comprehensive policies regarding
 its use.  the administration is committed to policies that
 protect all americans' right to privacy while also protecting
 them from those who break the law.
 
 further information is provided in an accompanying fact sheet. 
 the provisions of the president's directive to acquire the new
 encryption technology are also available.  
 
 for additional details, call mat heyman, national institute of
 standards and technology, (301) 975-2758.
 
 ---------------------------------
 
 
 questions and answers about the clinton administration's
 telecommunications initiative
 
 
 
 
 q:   does this approach expand the authority of government
      agencies to listen in on phone conversations?
 
 a:   no.  "clipper chip" technology provides law enforcement with
      no new authorities to access the content of the private
      conversations of americans.
 
 q:   suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
      a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
      encrypted using the device.  what would they have to do to
      decipher the message?
 
 a:   they would have to obtain legal authorization, normally a
      court order, to do the wiretap in the first place.  they
      would then present documentation of this authorization to
      the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
      obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
      smugglers.  the key is split into two parts, which are
      stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
      escrow system.
 
 q:   who will run the key-escrow data banks?
 
 a:   the two key-escrow data banks will be run by two independent
      entities.  at this point, the department of justice and the
      administration have yet to determine which agencies will
      oversee the key-escrow data banks.
 
 q:   how strong is the security in the device?  how can i be sure
      how strong the security is?  
 
 a:   this system is more secure than many other voice encryption
      systems readily available today.  while the algorithm will
      remain classified to protect the security of the key escrow
      system, we are willing to invite an independent panel of
      cryptography experts to evaluate the algorithm to assure all
      potential users that there are no unrecognized
      vulnerabilities.
 
 q:   whose decision was it to propose this product?
 
 a:   the national security council, the justice department, the
      commerce department, and other key agencies were involved in
      this decision.  this approach has been endorsed by the
      president, the vice president, and appropriate cabinet
      officials.
 
 q:   who was consulted?  the congress?  industry?
 
 a:   we have on-going discussions with congress and industry on
      encryption issues, and expect those discussions to intensify
      as we carry out our review of encryption policy.  we have
      briefed members of congress and industry leaders on the
      decisions related to this initiative.
 
 q:   will the government provide the hardware to manufacturers?
 
 a:   the government designed and developed the key access
      encryption microcircuits, but it is not providing the
      microcircuits to product manufacturers.  product
      manufacturers can acquire the microcircuits from the chip
      manufacturer that produces them.
 
 q:   who provides the "clipper chip"?
 
 a:   mykotronx programs it at their facility in torrance,
      california, and will sell the chip to encryption device
      manufacturers.  the programming function could be licensed
      to other vendors in the future.
 
 q:   how do i buy one of these encryption devices? 
 
 a:   we expect several manufacturers to consider incorporating
      the "clipper chip" into their devices.
      
 q:   if the administration were unable to find a technological
      solution like the one proposed, would the administration be
      willing to use legal remedies to restrict access to more
      powerful encryption devices?
 
 a:   this is a fundamental policy question which will be
      considered during the broad policy review.  the key escrow
      mechanism will provide americans with an encryption product
      that is more secure, more convenient, and less expensive
      than others readily available today, but it is just one
      piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to
      encryption technology, which the administration is
      developing.
 
      the administration is not saying, "since encryption
      threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement,
      we will prohibit it outright" (as some countries have
      effectively done); nor is the u.s. saying that "every
      american, as a matter of right, is entitled to an
      unbreakable commercial encryption product."  there is a
      false "tension" created in the assessment that this issue is
      an "either-or" proposition.  rather, both concerns can be,
      and in fact are, harmoniously balanced through a reasoned,
      balanced approach such as is proposed with the "clipper
      chip" and similar encryption techniques.
 
 q:   what does this decision indicate about how the clinton
      administration's policy toward encryption will differ from
      that of the bush administration?  
 
 a:   it indicates that we understand the importance of encryption
      technology in telecommunications and computing and are
      committed to working with industry and public-interest
      groups to find innovative ways to protect americans'
      privacy, help businesses to compete, and ensure that law
      enforcement agencies have the tools they need to fight crime
      and terrorism.
 
 q:   will the devices be exportable?  will other devices that use
      the government hardware?
 
 a:   voice encryption devices are subject to export control
      requirements.  case-by-case review for each export is
      required to ensure appropriate use of these devices.  the
      same is true for other encryption devices.  one of the
      attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
      to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad.  with this
      in mind, we expect export licenses will be granted on a
      case-by-case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
      devices to secure their own communications abroad.  we plan
      to review the possibility of permitting wider exportability
      of these products.
 
 ----------- end included article ----------- 
 
 -- 
 pat@rwing.uucp      [without prejudice ucc 1-207]     (pat myrto) seattle, wa
          if all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
 wisdom: "only two things are infinite; the universe and human stupidity,
          and i am not sure about the former."              - albert einstien
 