
 in article <1993apr17.061326.16130@clarinet.com> brad@clarinet.com (brad templeton) writes:
 >in article <tcmayc5m2xv.jex@netcom.com> tcmay@netcom.com (timothy c. may) writes:
 >>getting the court order to reveal the key *also* makes decipherable
 >>all *past* conversations (which may be on tape, or disk, or whatver),
 >>as i understand the proposal. i could be wrong, but i've seen no
 >>mention of "session keys" being the escrowed entities.
 >
 >true in theory.  in practice?  the technology of cellular phones will
 >probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the crypttext
 >without the key.  if the frequency path depends on they key, as i
 >understand it to, it *could* be made effectively impossible to record.
 
 i am not an expert in the cryptography science, but some basic things
 seem evident to me, things which this clinton clipper do not address.
 the all pertain to opportunites for abuse, and conclusions based on what
 i have seen the membership of this group (except for two notable persons)
 agree to.  if anything bad is possible by the government in theory, it
 almost always ends up happening in fact.  so the key is to make abuse
 impossible.  question authority, and remember power does corrupt.
 
 i think one has to regard this whole idea in the sense that it will be
 expanded to include other data forms, such as data transfer and stored
 data. and as such should be treated as if it were expanded (or such
 expansion will be almost impossible to stop, using clipper as a precident).
 there was a hint of that in the proposal, remember.  that said, please
 bear with me, i am not very articulate, so i take more words to say
 what others could say much more briefly.  thank you.
 
 >once it hits land you can record it if you have telco access.  the
 >telco isn't supposed to give that without a warrant.  that's the rule
 >today.
 
 as i suggested this is now.  the hint is in the proposal that this or
 similar proposals are being considered for other forms of encryptions
 such as data transfer, data files, and such, largely dependent on how
 this thing is accepted or flies.  i think one would be wise to treat
 this in the manner one would when (not if) it gets expanded to other
 areas than cellular phones.  i think this is guaranteed to happen, if
 this proposal gets by.  salami politics.  it has been and is used in
 several other areas, it is certain to be used here.  government is not
 going to easily give up on the idea that they should be able to eavesedrop
 whenever they want to.  'court order required' has proven to be a rather
 flimsy guarantee.  if the case warrants, they can always sieze the
 material, and force one to give the key, or sit in jail forever on
 periodically renewed contempt charges.  so it is not denying the justice
 system the information, nor the ability to lock someone up if guilty
 (or refuses to divulge the means to access the info - this is not
 protected under the fifth - one can be forced to perform acts that would
 result in divulging incriminating evidence).  so, blocking restrictions
 on private encryption is not preventing legitimate law enforcement - it
 does make illegitimate law enforcement a bunch more difficult.  especially
 fishing expeditions without the target's knowlege.  don't give up the
 right to be safe from that - that should be non-negotiable, and clinton
 and co. know it (which is probably why they quietly developed this thing,
 figuring if they get it this far, they can ram it on through).  how come
 those consulted could be roughly described as "us insiders"?  they cannot
 quietely impliment it though, when they ban other schemes to ensure its
 exclusive use.  hence the nice pr document to try and reassure everyone.
 don't buy into it.  has government really earned that kind of trust,
 past or future?  to be secure and free, one must keep government honest
 and the only way to do that is to make abuse impossible, not 'unlikely'
 or 'difficult'.
 
 >but even so, the evidence would not be admissible, i think, unless the
 >judge so ordered.  i think that even interception of the crypttext
 >without a warrant would be illegal.   cops can't record today's plain
 >cellular calls and then ask a judge, "hey, can we have permission to
 >listen to those tapes?" can they?
 
 so what?  one could use information gained by re-use of the keys (saved
 after the last case was finished) or other means (master key, backdoor,
 easily broken algorithm) to find other evidence which, given to a judge,
 would authorize a tap which wouldn't have been possible otherwise.  this
 has been the more common manner of abuse of wiretaps in the past...  for
 local cops, this might be workable to keep them honest, but the feds
 have a workaround somehow, bet on it.  does anyone really believe
 for example, that the government will use a scheme nsa cannot listen
 in on scanning for keywords - either easily defeated in realtime or
 via a 'master key'?  i sure don't.
 
 this whole thing sounds like something to eliminate the need to use
 old-fashioned police work to build a case.  in the past, eavesdropping
 was rather easy (with or without a court order).  i think the law
 enforcement community has become a bit spoiled, and will resist changes
 that require them to revert to using old-fashioned detective work.  i
 just find it somewhat surprising coming from a bunch that cares so much
 about civil and individual rights, that "puts people first".  the question
 is "put people first" to where?
 
 with the innards not being revealed, how is one to be sure there doesn't
 exist a 'master key' for use by nsa, etc (so they can do their keyword
 scan, etc on conversations they routinely monitor, without a specific
 court order)?   remember, the cellular phone limitiation is only temporary.
 bet on it.  and so far i have not heard about police telling people that
 they have been tapped and nothing incriminating was found.  what is to
 keep them from simply keeping the keys on file for 'next time'? after
 awhile, they would have quite a collection.  kept especially for folks
 they deem 'disruptive'.  and if they get only one key, that would
 reduce the search space a lot, unless it is an rsa scheme.  remember
 nixon years?  need for court orders really slowed them down, didn't it?
 
 and unless the escrow accounts are not government controlled (fat chance!
 i see one ending up being under, say treasury, the other under justice
 :-)) it could be worth some serious bucks to some folks to get keys to
 a competitor's clinton clipper (or descendent when this idea is expanded
 to be used for all non-government encryption).  enough bucks would get
 one the keys or the innards for this algorithm.  perhaps not an important
 concern, but given past government behavior and the other problems...
 
 >>worse, of course, if the government then uses this "clinton clipper"
 >>to argue for restrictions on unapproved encryption. (this is the main
 >>concern of most of us, i think. the camel's nose in the tent, etc.)
 >
 >yes, that is a major concern, but i think that they think they can
 >win just by having 99.5% of the usa use this system.  they don't even
 >have to care about the cautious .5% that's left.  they don't catch the
 >really smart crooks anyway.   john gotti, who would have to be retarded
 >not to realize he was likely to be wiretapped, glibly chatted away
 >on his tapped phone about murder plans.  that's why he's in jail now.
 >hard to believe, but true.
 
 what will one do when it is expanded to data storage encryption?  you
 can bet that if clipper is accepted, that will be next on the agenda.
 it is even hinted at in the proposal - read it carefully...  expect the
 argumet "well, if you got nothing to hide..."  fine. then using that
 argument, one should not object to video cameras being installed in
 every room of one's home.  granted - an exteme expansion of the idea but
 the principle holds.  private stuff should remain private, even from a
 govt fishing expedition.  and laws/rules may change in the future as
 to 'safeguards'.  when it comes to the fed government, safeguards are
 pretty meaningless, if they want to do/get something.
 
 don't work so hard to give up some rather treasured rights, or establish
 bad precidents, please.  the price could be hell to pay, later.
 
 >this scheme can succeed without laws forbidding more, which people would
 >fight a lot harder.  they like this enough that they are dropping the so
 >called "digital telephony" proposal, according to rumours.  however the
 >meaning of that is complex, since they still want to get at the crypttext
 >on telco systems, and that requires a bit of work.
 
 people would fight laws forbidding more now, but in, say two years,
 because we have this 'crisis' situation which must be addressed by some
 'drastic action', just this added reasonable restriction will only bother
 those who have someting to hide... etc.  please don't buy into it.
 
 if the clinton clipper is so very good, why not make its algrithm public
 so many people can exchange ideas and examine it, rather than a few
 isolated 'respected experts' (respected by whom?  for what?  perhaps a
 certain professor who likes key banks would be one of the selected
 experts... this does seem to expand on some ideas the person was
 advocating, if i recall :-).  how would anybody know that what the
 experts examine is the same as what will end up being used in the clipper
 chip, if it is kept secret?   perhaps the clipper will use a crippled
 version (with a 'master key' provision), or features not present in the
 version subjected for study and evaluation by the experts.  and who
 chooses the expertes?  the government?  no conflict of interest there...
 :-)
 
 and isn't it a requirement for any decent encryption scheme that it not
 have its effectiveness reduced by having the algrorithm widely known?
 i was lead to believe that one should assume the other side has everything
 you have, except for the key(s)... i recall ideas presented to this
 group are rejected if a requirement exists the algorithm be secret...
 
 another question - since it is a safe bet this clipper thing would not
 be used for government security, they are regarding it as not real secure
 but "good enough" for common folk.  i think i would like to see a full
 description (not a pr non-statement) of just what "good enough" means?
 i think when saying how strong it is, "good enough" really means "not
 very".  the excuse that other countries have these restrictions is not
 acceptable:  other countries do not have our bill of rights and
 constitution (which the people, not the governments, of those other
 countries often regard with envy - what we have as rights they have as
 revokable privileges).  and if we expect to retain those rights and
 protections, we must not allow them to be gutted because we just gotta
 have this thing to 'fight crime'.  we have allready have our bill of
 rights pretty much torn to shreds.  we should not permit more weakining
 for yet another 'noble cause', instead we should be trying to repair
 the damage.  our crime problem may have a number of causes, but "too
 many rights and safeguards" is not a signifigant one.  a broken court
 system and poor police work are a much more signifigant cause as having
 "too many rights" (disregarding addressing the root causes for crime,
 etc).
 
 btw - those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton, believe
 this:  i would be going ballistic reagardless who seriously proposed
 this thing.  it is just another step in a gradual erosion of our rights
 under the constitution or bill of rights.  the last couple of decades
 have been a non-stop series of end-runs around the protections of the
 constitution.  it has to stop.  now is as good a time as any, if it
 isn't too late allready.
 
 >-- 
 >brad templeton, clarinet communications corp. -- sunnyvale, ca 408/296-0366
 
 
 -- 
 pat@rwing.uucp      [without prejudice ucc 1-207]     (pat myrto) seattle, wa
          if all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
 wisdom: "only two things are infinite; the universe and human stupidity,
          and i am not sure about the former."              - albert einstien
 