
 i received the following two notes from martin hellman with details
 on how clipper will work.  they are posted with his permission.  the
 implications of some details are fascinating.
 
 -------
 date: sat, 17 apr 93 23:05:23 pdt
 from: "martin hellman" <hellman@isl.stanford.edu>
 to: (a long list of recipients)
 subject: clipper chip
 
 
 most of you have seen the announcement in friday's ny times,
 etc. about nist (national institute of standards & technology)
 announcing the "clipper chip" crypto device. several messges
 on the net have asked for more technical details, and some have
 been laboring under understandable misunderstandings given
 the lack of details in the news  articles. so here to help out
 is your friendly nsa link: me. i was somewhat surprised friday
 to get a call from the agency which supplied many of the missing
 details. i was told the info was public, so here it is (the cc of this
 to dennis branstad at nist is mostly as a double check on my
 facts since i assume he is aware of all this; please let me know
 if i have anything wrong):
 
 the clipper chip will have a secret crypto algorithm embedded in 
 silicon. each chip will have two secret, 80-bit keys. one will be the 
 same for all chips (ie a system-wide key) and the other will be unit 
 specific. i don't know what nist and nsa will call them, but i will 
 call them the system key sk and unit key uk in this message. 
 the ic will be designed to be extremely difficult to reverse so 
 that the system key can be kept secret. (aside: it is clear that 
 they also want to keep the algorithm secret and, in my opinion, 
 it may be as much for that as this stated purpose.) the unit key 
 will be generated as the xor of two 80-bit random numbers k1 
 and k2 (uk=k1+k2) which will be kept by the two escrow 
 authorities. who these escrow authorities will be is still to be 
 decided by the attorney general, but it was stressed to me that 
 they will not be nsa or law enforcement agencies, that they 
 must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased. 
 when a law enforcement agency gets a court order, they will 
 present it to these two escrow authorities and receive k1 and 
 k2, thereby allowing access to the unit key uk.
 
 in addition to the system key, each user will get to choose his 
 or her own key and change it as often as desired. call this key 
 plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be 
 encrypted under k, then k will be encrypted under the unit key uk, 
 and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part 
 message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk 
 producing
 
      e{ e[m; k], e[k; uk], serial number;  sk}
 
 when a court order obtains k1 and k2, and thence k, the law 
 enforcement agency will use sk to decrypt all information 
 flowing on the suspected link [aside: it is my guess that 
 they may do this constantly on all links, with or without a 
 court order, since it is almost impossible to tell which links 
 over which a message will flow.] this gives the agency access to 
 
      e[m; k], e[k; uk], serial number
 
 in the above message. they then check the serial number 
 of the unit and see if it is on the "watch list" for which they 
 have a court order. if so, they will decrypt e[k; uk] to obtain k, 
 and then decrypt e[m; k] to obtain m.
 
 i am still in the process of assessing this scheme, so please do 
 not take the above as any kind of endorsement of the proposed 
 scheme. all i am trying to do is help all of us assess the scheme 
 more knowledgably. but i will say that the need for just one court 
 order worries me. i would feel more comfortable (though not 
 necessarily comfortable!) if two separate court orders were 
 needed, one per escrow authority. while no explanation is
 needed, the following story adds some color: in researching
 some ideas that silvio micali and i have been kicking around,
 i spoke with gerald gunther, the constitutional law expert
 here at stanford and he related the following story: when
 edward levi became pres. ford's attorney general (right
 after watergate), he was visited by an fbi agent asking
 for "the wiretap authorizations." when levy asked for
 the details so he could review the cases as required by
 law, the agent told him that his predecessors just turned
 over 40-50 blank, signed forms every time. levi did not
 comply and changed the system, but the lesson is clear: 
 no single person or authority should have the power to
 authorize wiretaps (or worse yet, divulging of personal
 keys). sometimes he or she will be an edward levi
 and sometimes a john mitchell.
 
 martin hellman
 
 ----
 
 date: sun, 18 apr 93 11:41:42 pdt
 from: "martin hellman" <hellman@isl.stanford.edu>
 to: smb@research.att.com
 subject: re: clipper chip
 
 it is fine to post my previous message to sci.crypt 
 if you also post this message with it in which:
 
 1. i ask recipients to be sparse in their requesting further info 
 from me or asking for comments on specific questions. by
 this posting i apologize for any messages i am unable to
 respond to. (i already spend too much time answering too much
 e-mail and am particularly overloaded this week with other
 responsibilities.) 
 
 2. i note a probably correction sent to me by dorothy denning.
 she met with the person from nsa that
 i talked with by phone, so her understanding is likely to
 better than mine on this point: where i said the transmitted
 info is  e{ e[m; k], e[k; uk], serial number;  sk}
 she says the message is not double encrypted. the system
 key (or family key as she was told it is called) only encrypts
 the serial number or the serial number and the encrypted
 unit key. this is not a major difference, but i thought it
 should be mentioned and thank her for bringing it to
 my attention. it makes more sense since it cuts down
 on encryption computation overhead.
 