
 here are some ideas for those of you who want to oppose the white
 house clipper chip crypto initiative.  i think this is going to be a
 tough measure to fight, since the government has invested a lot of
 resources in developing this high-profile initiative.  they are
 serious about it now.  it won't be as easy as it was defeating senate
 bill 266 in 1991.
 
 possible actions to take in response:
 
 1)  mobilize your friends to to all the things on this list, and
 more.
 
 2)  work the press.  talk with your local newspaper's science and
 technology reporter.  write to your favorite trade rags.  better yet,
 write some articles yourself for your favorite magazines or
 newspapers.  explain why the clipper chip initiative is a bad idea. 
 remember to tailor it to your audience.  the general public may be
 slow to grasp why it's a bad idea, since it seems so technical and
 arcane and innocent sounding.  try not to come across as a flaming
 libertarian paranoid extremist, even if you are one. 
 
 3)  lobby congress.  write letters and make phone calls to your
 member of congress in your own district, as well as your two us
 senators.  many members of congress have aides that advise them of
 technology issues.  talk to those aides.
 
 4)  involve your local political parties.  the libertarian party
 would certainly be interested.  there are also libertarian wings of
 the democrat and republican parties.  the right to privacy has a
 surprisingly broad appeal, spanning all parts of the political
 spectrum.  we have many natural allies.  the aclu.  the nra.  other
 activist groups that may someday find themselves facing a government
 that can suppress them much more efficiently if these trends play
 themselves out.  but you must articulate our arguments well if you
 want to draw in people who are not familiar with these issues.
 
 4)  contribute money to the electronic frontier foundation (eff) and
 computer professionals for social responsibility (cpsr), assuming
 these groups will fight this initiative.  they need money for legal
 expenses and lobbying.
 
 5)  mobilize opposition in industry.  companies that will presumably
 develop products that will incorporate the clipper chip should be
 lobbied against it, from within and from without.  if you work for a
 telecommunications equipment vendor, first enlist the aid of your
 coworkers and fellow engineers against this initiative, and then
 present your company's management with a united front of engineering
 talent against this initiative.  write persuasive memos to your
 management, with your name and your colleagues' names on it.  hold
 meetings on it.
 
 6)  publicize, deploy and entrench as much guerrilla
 techno-monkeywrenching apparatus as you can.  that means pgp,
 anonymous mail forwarding systems based on pgp, pgp key servers,
 etc.  the widespread availability of this kind of technology might
 also be used as an argument that it can't be effectively suppressed
 by government action.  i will also be working to develop new useful
 tools for these purposes. 
 
 7)  be prepared to engage in an impending public policy debate on
 this topic.  we don't know yet how tough this fight will be, so we
 may have to compromise to get most of what we want.  if we can't
 outright defeat it, we may have to live with a modified version of
 this clipper chip plan in the end.  so we'd better be prepared to
 analyze the government's plan, and articulate how we want it
 modified.
 
 
 -philip zimmermann
 
 
 