
 	from: andersom@spot.colorado.edu (marc anderson)
 
 	>also.. how about a box that you plug your phone into, which would allow
 	>encrypted voice communications with someone who has a similar box?  
 	>(digitizing input speech, transmitting, and decrypting on the other end).  i 
 	>don't know how a public-key system could work in this regard, but it might 
 	[...]
 
 	heh heh... i posted this just before reading all the clinton chip messages..
 	i guess they beat me to it..  anyway, i think it would be a great idea to
 	develop such a product, perhaps in the underground, as it would otherwise
 	probably become illegal pretty quickly here...
 
 it's really very feasible and shouldn't be too expensive - all that's needed
 is a box with a phone jack on one side, a dsp in the middle to do codec
 functions of speech->compressed bytestream, and an rs232 on the other side.
 
 you'd plug your phone into it, plug the rs232 into your computer, and have
 a good old fashioned normal modem on your other rs232 port.  the cpu in the
 middle would do the encryption with a version of pgp modified to work on
 a byte stream.
 
 with v32bis or better modems to carry the bytestream, it should work. 
 quality would only be marginally lower than a normal telephone.
 
 at the very highest price, you could use one of those voice-mail compatible
 modems to do the digitisation - that puts an upper bound of about $500 on
 the cost of such a box.  in practice, you really ought to be able to get
 the price well below $100 - i could do it now in software on my cheap&nasty
 home risc box (acorn archimedes) with the digitising microphone i bought
 for 25 pounds, if i knew how to write good speech compression software
 (which i don't).
 
 the reason it won't work of course is that hardly anyone will have one -
 the only consumer equipment to have encryption will use the wiretap chip.
 economics, i'm afraid.
 
 however... we can get about 2kcps throughput on the internet even with
 the bottleneck of a v32bis modem.  when we get isdn for all (ha ha ha)
 and the new nren, it might then be trivial to run compressed speech
 over a tcp/ip connection on the internet.  perhaps we should start
 thinking now of a standard to keep voice on the internet compatible
 for everyone, and side-step the clipper stuff and use internet for
 all our phone calls in future :-)  [1/2 joking]
 
 g
 