
 strnlght@netcom.com (david sternlight) writes:
 
 > what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be "the truth" so no
 > flames, please. 
 
 it is incompetent, like almost anything you have posted here, so
 you'll be flamed, sorry.
 
 > it comes out of a background of 20 years as a senior
 > corporate staff executive in two fortune 50 companies.
 
 %/$( your "20 years of background in two fortune 50 companies"; i've
 lived 30 years under a totalitarian regime, and boy, i *can* recognize
 a totalitarian plot when i see one...
 
 > i'd be happy to use a crypto system supplied by the nsa for business, if
 > they told me it was more secure than des, and in particular resistant to
 
 i am sure that -you- would be happy to use anything "they" tell you is
 secure; we're talking about the intelligent people here... or the
 criminal ones, if you don't like the previous sentence... :-) or those
 who don't want their privacy to be guaranteed to be invadable by the
 government - any current and future government, mind you...
 
 > i'd be happy to do so even with escrowed keys, provided i was happy about
 > the bona fides of the escrow agencies (the federal reserve would certainly
 > satisfy me, as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting firms).
 
 even if you ignore the nonsense of the above statement for a moment,
 and even if you are happy with such system and the current escrow
 agencies now, what guarantees that you'll be happy with them tomorrow,
 when the government changes? or when the current government throws
 away the sheep skin? all the sheep who are reasoning like you will get
 caught by surprise, but it will be too late, because then cryptography
 that is not guaranteed to be breakable by the government will already
 have been outlawed... after all, you've already got privacy that is
 said to be breakable only by the law enforcement agencies, so if you
 are law-abiding, you have no reasons to use a stronger one, right? so,
 if you are using a stronger one, you have something to hide from the
 law enforcement agencies, right? something unlawful, right? therefore,
 strong crypto is a clear idndication that you are doing something
 unlawful.
 
 > i'd trust the nsa or the president if they stated there were no trap
 
 considering the level of competence in cryptology that you have
 demonstrated in your messages, you would trust just anything... and
 no, this is not an ad hominem attack; it's an attack against the
 contents of your messages <grin>.
 
 > doors--i'd be even happier if a committee of independent experts examined
 > the thing under seal of secrecy and reported back that it was secure.
 
 and how do you know that these experts are not corrupted? and how do
 you know that they will not make a mistake? and how do you know that
 the version of the algorithm they will be let to examine is the same
 as the one that will be really used?
 
 regarding the mistake - even the few information "they" have let out
 has revealed a serious security hole in the protocol - the 80-bit key
 is split in two 40-bit ones, thus the whole system is easily
 breakable, if you have only one of the keys.
 
 > i'd trust something from the nsa long before i'd trust something from some
 > swiss or anybody japanese.
 
 the swiss or the japanese are motivated by simple greed; nsa is
 motivated by their wish to control the people. that's why the drug
 dealers have their accounts in swiss banks, instead of in american
 ones. for some reason, they do trust the swiss banks more... guess
 they'll trust the swiss encryption more too... i see idea becoming
 suddenly popular... :-)
 
 > this may seem surprising to some here, but i suggest most corporations would
 > feel the same way. most/many/some (pick one) corporations have an attitude
 > that the nsa is part of our government and "we support our government", as
 > one very famous ceo put it to me one day.
 
 it's not surprising at all, but not because of the reason you give.
 it's because it is obvious that the us government has put a lot of
 money behind this program and it will support it. thus, most
 corporations will try to get their piece from the pie by supporting it
 too. the same good old greed. strong encryption is not widely
 available now not because of some plot, but because the companies
 don't see much money in it. it will be available even less, if the
 companies can see any penalties associated with it...
 
 > just some perspective from another point of view.
 
 yeah, just as i predicted, you are here again, to support the new
 system.
 
 regards,
 vesselin
 -- 
 vesselin vladimirov bontchev          virus test center, university of hamburg
 tel.:+49-40-54715-224, fax: +49-40-54715-226      fachbereich informatik - agn
 < pgp 2.2 public key available on request. > vogt-koelln-strasse 30, rm. 107 c
 e-mail: bontchev@fbihh.informatik.uni-hamburg.de    d-2000 hamburg 54, germany
 