
 here are some corrections and additions to hellman's note, courtesy of
 dorothy denning.  again, this is reposted with permission.
 
 two requests -- first, note the roles of s1 and s2.  it appears to me
 and others that anyone who knows those values can construct the unit
 key.  and the nature of the generation process for k1 and k2 is such
 that neither can be produced alone.  thus, the scheme cannot be
 implemented such that one repository generates the first half-key, and
 another generates the second.  *that* is ominous.
 
 second -- these postings are not revealed scripture, nor are they
 carefully-crafted spook postings.  don't attempt to draw out hidden
 meanings (as opposed to, say, the official announcements of clipper).
 leave denning out of this; given hellman's record of opposition to des,
 which goes back before some folks on this newsgroup knew how to read, i
 don't think you can impugn his integrity.
 
 oh yeah -- the folks who invented clipper aren't stupid.  if you think
 something doesn't make sense, it's almost certainly because you don't
 understand their goals.
 
 		--steve bellovin
 
 -----
 
 date: sun, 18 apr 93 07:56:39 edt
 from: denning@cs.georgetown.edu (dorothy denning)
 subject: re:  clipper chip
 to: (a long list of folks)
 
 i was also briefed by the nsa and fbi, so let me add a few comments to
 marty's message:
 
         the clipper chip will have a secret crypto algorithm embedded in 
 
 the algorithm operates on 64-bit blocks (like des) and the chip supports
 all 4 des modes of operation.  the algorithm uses 32 rounds of scrambling
 compared with 16 in des.
 
 	in addition to the system key, each user will get to choose his 
 	or her own key and change it as often as desired. call this key 
 	plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be 
 
 k is the session key shared by the sender and receiver.  any method
 (e.g., public key) can be used to establish the session key.  in the
 at&t telephone security devices, which will have the new chip, the key
 is negotiated using a public-key protocol.
  
 	encrypted under k, then k will be encrypted under the unit key uk, 
 	and the serial number of the unit added to produce a three part 
 	message which will then be encrypted under the system key sk 
 	producing
 
 	     e{ e[m; k], e[k; uk], serial number;  sk}
 
 my understanding is that e[m; k] is not encrypted under sk (called the
 "family key") and that the decrypt key corresponding to sk is held by
 law enforcement.  does anyone have first hand knowledge on this?  i
 will also check it out, but this is 7am sunday so i did not want to wait.
 
         the unit key 
 	will be generated as the xor of two 80-bit random numbers k1 
 	and k2 (uk=k1+k2) which will be kept by the two escrow 
 
 the unit key, also called the "chip key," is generated from the
 serial number n as follows.  let n1, n2, and n3 be 64 bit blocks
 derived from n, and let s1 and s2 be two 80-bit seeds used as keys.
 compute the 64-bit block 
 
         r1 = e[d[e[n1; s1]; s2]; s1] 
 
 (note that this is like using the des in triple encryption mode with
 two keys.)  similarly compute blocks r2 and r3 starting with n2 and n3.
 (i'm unlear about whether the keys s1 and s2 change.  the fact that
 they're called seeds suggests they might.)  then r1, r2, and r3 are
 concatenated together giving 192 bits.  the first 80 bits  form k1 and
 the next 80 bits form k2.  the remaining bits are discarded.
 
 	authorities. who these escrow authorities will be is still to be 
 	decided by the attorney general, but it was stressed to me that 
 	they will not be nsa or law enforcement agencies, that they 
 	must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased. 
 
 marty is right on this and the fbi has asked me for suggestions.
 please pass them to me along with your reasons.  in addition to marty's
 criteria, i would add that the agencies must have an established record
 of being able to safeguard highly sensitive information.  some suggestions
 i've received so far include sri, rand, mitre, the national labs (sandia,
 lanl, los alamos), treasury, gao.
 
 	when a court order obtains k1 and k2, and thence k, the law 
 	enforcement agency will use sk to decrypt all information 
 	flowing on the suspected link [aside: it is my guess that 
 	they may do this constantly on all links, with or without a 
 	court order, since it is almost impossible to tell which links 
 	over which a message will flow.] 
 
 my understanding is that there will be only one decode box and that it
 will be operated by the fbi.  the service provider will isolate the
 communications stream and pass it to the fbi where it will pass through
 the decode box, which will have been keyed with k.
 
 	for "the wiretap authorizations." when levy asked for
 	the details so he could review the cases as required by
 	law, the agent told him that his predecessors just turned
 	over 40-50 blank, signed forms every time. levi did not
         comply and changed the system, but the lesson is clear: 
         no single person or authority should have the power to
         authorize wiretaps
 
 no single person does, at least for fbi taps.  after completing a mound
 of paperwork, an agent must get the approval of several people on a chain
 that includes fbi legal counsel before the request is even taken to the
 attorney general for final approval.
 
 dorothy denning
 