
 ( below is my response to dr. denning's letter to steven bellovin. comments
   are invited. - paul )
 
 in alt.privacy.clipper, steve bellovin posted your message to
 him, which included a brief passage concerning selection of agencies
 as escrow agencies.
 
 i am glad to see that the proposal as written states that the escrow
 agencies won't be law enforcement agencies. i would argue, however,
 that *one* of the escrow agencies shouldn't be federal at all.
 
 as a private citizen, i would feel much more "secure in my person and
 papers" knowing that an organization committed to individual civil
 liberties- the aclu and the nra come to mind- was safeguarding half of
 my key. both the aclu and the nra are resistent to government pressure
 by the simple expedient fact that they are not supported, funded, or
 overtly controlled by the government.
 
 of those federal and federally funded candidate agencies that you
 mentioned, i have the following comments:
 
 	- sri, rand, mitre, and national labs: i agree that they have
         great experience safeguarding sensitive information. i am not
         convinced that they would adequately safeguard _this_
 	information, since in any case requiring disclosure, there's
       	likely to be sigificant pressure for disclosure- possibly
  	*wrongful* disclosure.
 
 	- gao: perhaps. i would like to see more concrete evidence of
  	their fidelity and ability.
 
 	- *treasury*? surely you're joking. perhaps you'd ask batf
 	to safeguard keys. maybe the federal reserve would be a 
 	better choice.
 
 ever since last fall's "trial balloon" was posted in sci.crypt, your
 name has been synonymous with those who place a great deal of trust in
 the ability of government agencies and agents to act within the law.
 
 i agree with you in part: those agencies and agents *almost always*
 act properly. however, there have been enough cases where _sworn
 agents of the federal government_ have acted wrongly to make me feel
 that having two federal agencies as key repositories is unacceptable.
 
 
 respectfully,
 -paul robichaux
  (not speaking for nti, bcss, or nasa)
 
 
 -- 
 paul robichaux, kd4jzg                | help stop the big brother chip!
 nti mission software development div. | ripem key on request.
 