
 here is a disturbing thought.
 
 now, we no longer live in the days of big filing cabinets. we live in
 the electronic age. i asked myself, how big could the escrow database
 get? how hard might it be to steal the whole thing, particularly were
 i an nsa official operating with the tacit permission of the escrow
 houses? (we can pretend that such will not happen, but thats naive.)
 
 well, lets see. ten bytes of each escrow half. lets asume ten bytes of
 serial number -- in fact, i believe the serial number is smaller, but
 this is an order of magnitude calculation. we assume 250*10^6 as the
 population, and that each person has a key. i get five gigabytes for
 each of the two escrow databases. fits conveniently on a single very
 valuable exabyte tape. this can only get easier with time, but who
 cares -- i can already hold all the clipper keys in the country in my
 pocket on two 8mm tapes.
 
 admittely, they will think of safeguards. they won't put the whole
 database on one disk, prehaps. maybe they will throw stumbling blocks
 in the way. this changes nothing -- they keys will be needed every day
 by hundreds if not thousands of law enforcement types, so convenience
 will dictate that the system permit quick electronic retrieval. at
 some point, with or without collusion by the agencies, those exabyte
 tapes are going to get cut. dorothy denning and david sternlight will
 doubtless claim this can't happen -- but we know that "can't" is a
 prayer, not a word that in this instance connotes realism.
 
 with two exabyte tapes in your pocket, you would hold the keys for
 every person's conversations in the country in your hands. yeah, you
 need the "master key" two -- but thats just ten bytes of information
 that have to be stored an awful lot of places.
 
 come to think of it, even if the nsa getting a copy of the database
 isn't a threat to you because unlike me you have no contraversial
 political views, consider foreign intelligence services. you know, the
 ones that david sternlight wants to protect us from because of the
 evil industrial espionage that they do. the french apparently do have
 a big spying operation in friendly countries to get industrial
 secrets, so he isn't being completely irrational here (although why
 our companies couldn't use cryptosystems without back doors is left
 unexplained by those that point out this threat.) 
 
 presumably, foreign intelligence services can get moles into the nsa
 and other agencies. we have proof by example of this: its happened
 many times. presumably, someday they will get their hands on some
 fraction of the keys. you can't avoid that sort of thing.
 
 don't pretend that no one unauthorized will ever get their hands on
 the escrow databases.
 
 we crypto types are all taught something very important at the
 beginning of intro to cryptography -- security must depend on the
 easily changed key that you pick to run your system, and not on a
 secret. the escrow databases aren't the sorts of secrets that our
 teachers told us about, but they are the sort of big secrets they
 would lump into this category. imagine trying to replace 100 million
 clipper chips.
 
 i cannot believe that the nsa or whomever it is thats doing this
 doesn't realize all this already. they are too smart. there are too
 many of them who have made their bones in the real world. i suspect
 that they know precisely what they are doing -- and that what they are
 doing is giving us the appearance of safety so that they can continue
 to surveil in spite of the growth of strong cryptography. i suspect
 that they realize that they can't put things off forever, but they can
 try to delay things as long as possible.
 
 who knows. maybe even some of the higher ups, the inevitable
 bureaucratic types that rise in any organization, really do believe
 that this scheme might give people some security, even as their
 subordinates in fort meade wring their hands over the foolishness of
 it all.
 
 --
 perry metzger		pmetzger@shearson.com
 --
 laissez faire, laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.
 