
 in article <1993apr20.032623.3046@eff.org> kadie@eff.org (carl m. kadie) writes:
 
   > clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another layer of
   > encryption.
 
   but, if you are making custom equipment in any case, why not just
 roll your own clipper implementation and report the wrong keys to the
 escrow agency?  (tells us who is going to be in the chip business if
 this thing goes through--nsa, and those with something to hide from
 nsa.)
 
   if anyone can verify that your phone is not using the key registered
 to that serial number, either:
 
   1) they have a court ordered wiretap.  but what are they going to
 do?  tell the judge that this individual really does have privacy?
 all they know is that the keys are not enough, but not why.
 
   2) they have a court ordered wiretap on a phone in this series.
 (this part is really scary.  since the "expectation" is that all
 chips in a particular batch will uses seeds based on the same s1 and
 s2 and the serial number, getting the keys for one of a batch may give
 access to all.)
 
   3) there is a backdoor which allows all messages to be deciphered
 without the keys.  i find this one especially threatening since the
 scheme seems very open to known plaintext attacks.  (what i need to
 decipher is the data in the header.  if i talk to someone who has one
 of these phones, presumably there will be an automatically negotiated
 key generated.  i'm not trying to decipher the record of the
 conversation to know what was said, i use it as a known plaintext to
 recover the backdoor represented by the header, but i know what the
 header says for conversations i participate in.  even worse, if the
 phones in a series have related keys, i can buy a phone/chip from the
 same production lot.  then i can recover its keys, either elegantly by
 talking to myself, or by brute force analysis of the actual chip, then
 apply the key generation process with those seeds to find the target
 keys.)
 
     hmmm!  i don't think i want to ever come close to these phones.
 even des is starting to look good.  two cans and a string will provide
 much better security.
 
 
 
 --
 
 					robert i. eachus
 
 with standard_disclaimer;
 use  standard_disclaimer;
 function message (text: in clever_ideas) return better_ideas is...
 