
 read this through once or twice.  then replace "prince" with
 "government" or "president", as appropriate, and read it again.  
 
 [from chapter xx of _the prince_, by n. macchiavelli, as translated by
 daniel donno.]
 
 	in order to keep their lands secure, some princes have
 disarmed their subjects; others have prompted division within the
 cities they have subjugated.  some have nurtured animosities against
 themselves; others have sought to win the approval of those they
 initially distrusted.  some have erected fortresses; others have
 destroyed them.  now, although it is impossible to set down definite
 judgements on all of these measures without considering the particular
 circumstances of the states where they may be employed, i shall
 nevertheless discuss them in such broad terms as the subject itself
 will allow.
 
 	to begin with, there has never been a case of a new prince
 disarming his subjects.  indeed, whenever he found them disarmed, he
 proceeded to arm them.  for by arming your subjects, you make their
 arms your own.  those among them who are suspicious become loyal,
 while those who are already loyal remain so, and from subjects they
 are transformed into partisans.  though you cannot arm them all,
 nonetheless you increase your safety among those you leave unarmed by
 extending privileges to those you arm.  your different treatment of
 the two categories will make the latter feel obligated to you, while
 the former will consider it proper thoat those who assume added duties
 and dangers should receive advantages.  
 
 	when you disarm your subjects, however, you offend them, by
 showing that, either from cowardliness or from lack of faith, you
 distrust them; and either conclusion will induce them to hate you.
 moreover, since it is impossible for you to remain unarmed, you would
 have to resort to mercenaries, whose limitations have already been
 discussed. even if such troops were good, however, they could never be
 good enough to defend you from powerful enemies, and doubtful
 subjects.  therefore, as i have said, a new prince in a newly acquired
 state has always taken measures to arm his subjects, and history is
 full of examples proving that this is so.
 
 	but when a prince takes posession of a new state which he
 annexes as an addition to his original domain, then he must disarm all
 the subjects of the new state except those who helped him to acquire
 it; and these, as time and occasion permit, he must seek to render
 soft and weak.  he must arrange matters in such a way that the arms of
 the entire state will be in the hands of soldiers who are native to
 his original domain.
 
 	...
 
 	and since the subject demands it, i will not fail to remind
 any prince who has acquired a new state by the aid of its inhabitants
 that he soundly consider what induced them to assist him; if the
 reason is not natural affection for him, but rather dissatisfaction
 with the former government, he will find it extremely difficult to
 keep them friendly, for it will be impossible to please them.  if he
 will carefully think the matter through in the light of examples drawn
 from ancient and modern affairs, he will understand why it is much
 easier to win the favor of those who were happy with their former
 government, and hence were his enemies, than to keep the favor of
 those who, out of dissatisfaction with the former rule, helped him to
 replace it.
 
 
 
 
 