
 -----begin pgp signed message-----
 
 in message <9304190956.aa10390@pizzabox.demon.co.uk> you write:
 
 > : the cops/feds do *not* need to be able to get hold of your private key to
 > : listen in to cellular conversations.  encryption is not end-to-end, but 
 > : cellphone to base-station
 [...]
 
 > that was true for the uk paul, but i'm fairly sure they're talking about
 > building end-to-end encryption phones out of this chip.  it's *not* for
 > cellular (though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest)
 
 i'd lost the white house's deathless prose when i posted (that's what happens
 when you read news at home when you're rat-arsed), but i did have a bunch
 of follow-ups going on about cellular/cordless comms.  the original article
 has reappeared, so:
 
     the president today announced a new initiative that will bring
     the federal government together with industry in a voluntary
     program to improve the security and privacy of telephone
     communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law
     enforcement.
 
 hmm, telephone communications could indeed include end-to-end encryption on
 ordinary landlines.
 
     the initiative will involve the creation of new products to
     accelerate the development and use of advanced and secure
     telecommunications networks and wireless communications links.
 
 but the next paragraph says telecoms networks and wireless communications
 links.
 
 ok, it's far from clear exactly what cripple (what an apposite anagram) will
 be applied to, but the reason joe public wants secure comms is to stop
 people listening in to his cellular or cordless phones (and he wouldn't
 even be bothered about that were it not for wingnut and squidqy's
 misfortunes).
 
 yes, cripple *might* be for end-to-end encyption, dropping to clear
 when the other end doesn't have cripple.  but then a cordless-to-ordinary
 conversation would be in clear leaving the cordless end just as vulnerable
 as at present.  nope, i suspect that cripple will only be used on radio
 links.
 
 ok, it's possible `telecommunications networks' could mean `ordinary phone
 lines', but i'm betting it means the microwave links used by the telcos.
 
 my apologies if i'm wrong, particularly if the turgid press release makes it
 clear that i'm wrong and i missed it, but as far as i can see it was full of
 obfuscation, and anyone expecting end-to-end encryption is in for a surprise
 (imho).
 
 
 btw, graham, i've posted questions to alt.security.pgp and not seen any
 replies/followups from outside europe - how about you?  have i made it into
 everyone's kill file, or is there some problem?
 
 - --paul
 
 -----begin pgp signature-----
 version: 2.2
 
 iqcvagubk9spbmv14asak9pnaqgjbwp/zokyrm0gemlyysnj8bqoh8l8qljomrbo
 eocclpkstavebtdcligqhnzowc6ar2k1blibpua2twnqwrgva15ogoc7xxkjj093
 yb7p/vwvqbxyia6zdj5zkqsdep7x6ckidvdrz5cdis+onxtiothk3s3b3wjqbjcu
 vks8kov8gfg=
 =gvy0
 -----end pgp signature-----
 
 