
 excerpts from the clipper announcement, with some questions:
 
 >     --   the ability of authorized officials to access telephone
 >          calls and data, under proper court or other legal
 >          order, when necessary to protect our citizens;
 
 >q:   suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a wiretap on
 >     a drug smuggling ring and intercepts a conversation
 >     encrypted using the device.  what would they have to do to
 >     decipher the message?
 >
 >a:   they would have to obtain legal authorization, normally a
 >     court order, to do the wiretap in the first place.  they
 >     would then present documentation of this authorization to
 >     the two entities responsible for safeguarding the keys and
 >     obtain the keys for the device being used by the drug
 >     smugglers.  the key is split into two parts, which are
 >     stored separately in order to ensure the security of the key
 >     escrow system.
 
 in these two sections the phrases `or other legal order' and `normally a
 court order' imply there is some other way or ways of doing a legal
 wiretap. what is/are these? how do they affect the way people who trust the
 system of court orders to protect them feel about this escrow system?
 
 the second section shows the sequence of events.
 the law enforcer, armed with his warrant, attaches his headphones to the
 line with his croc-clips (remember, these are the folk who couldn't cope
 with digital telephony) and hears a load of modem-like tones (we are
 talking analogue telephony here).
 what next? what modulation scheme do these clipper boxes use?
 is it possible to record the tones for use after the keys are obtained?
 i thought it was quite difficult to record a modem session at some
 intermediate point on the line. maybe they have taken a crash course
 in data comms and have a unit that demodulates the tones and stores the
 digital stream for decryption later. this would still suffer from the
 same problems as trying to record the tones as the demodulator would not
 be at one end of the line. if calls can't be recorded for decryption later
 it would be quite easy to foil the system by buying lots of clipper units
 (these are supposed to be cheap mass market items) and using them in turn.
 
 how tolerant is the modulation scheme to errors? these things are proposed
 for use by us corporations to secure their foreign offices, where phone
 line quality may well be poor. it seems hard enough to me to get digitised
 speech of any quality into something a modem can handle without having to
 add lots of error correction to keep the decryption in sync.
 
 >q:   will the devices be exportable?  will other devices that use
 >     the government hardware?
 >
 >a:   voice encryption devices are subject to export control
 >     requirements.  ...  one of the
 >     attractions of this technology is the protection it can give
 >     to u.s. companies operating at home and abroad.  with this
 >     in mind, we expect export licenses will be granted on a
 >     case-by-case basis for u.s. companies seeking to use these
 >     devices to secure their own communications abroad.
 >     ...
 
 this raises an intersting question in the uk. here it is illegal to connect
 anything to a public telecomms network without it being approved by a body
 called babt. it has been stated, either here or in the uk.telecom group,
 that they will not approve equipment that does encryption. i don't know
 if this is true or not, but this would make a good test case.
 perhaps `friendly' countries, and the uk may still qualify, will get
 to fish in the escrowed key pool as well.
 
 
 		peter ilieve		peter@memex.co.uk
 
 