
 andrew molitor (amolitor@nmsu.edu) wrote:
 : 
 : 	1) monitor my phonecalls.
 : 	2) monitor usenet.
 : 	3) provide only cryptosystems they can easily crack.
 : 	4) etc etc.
 : 
 : 	this is not to say that they *don't*, they might. but you don't
 : know that they do, and you have no evidence that they do, for almost
 : all values of you. it follows, therefore, that for most values of 'you',
 : your claims about the nsa border on paranoia.
 : 
 : 	andrew
 
 now i wouldn't be the one to claim that you are injecting some
 disinformation into the net, andrew, but 'paranoia' refers to
 unwarranted or excessive suspicions or fear, not those that
 have reasonable roots.
 
 let's start with looking at the professionals, the nsa itself.
 its birth was by secret executive order by harry s truman
 in 1952.  until even 1976 not even one word of this executive
 order chartering the nsa was sealed.  paranoia, right?
 
 on the outside of the nsa complex is a ten foot cyclone fence
 with multiple rows of barbed wire, with high voltage, complete with signs
 prohibiting even making sketches under penalty of the internal
 security act.  the area is completely scanned by closed circuit
 television.  more paranoia.
 
 these are professionals,  maybe they know something we don't, eh?
 
 do you think it would have helped admiral yamamoto if the japanese
 had been a little more 'paranoid' of their purple cipher?
 
 or maybe the germans should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
 their engima with respect to turing and the british.
 
 how about the cracking of the zimmerman telegram?  would a little
 more paranoia have helped the germans here?
 
 maybe the nsa should have been a little more 'paranoid' about
 emma woikin, or joseph sidney petersen, jr., or  ...
 
 maybe you want to talk about macmillan publishers cooperation
 with the cia and nsa to suppress yardley's japanese diplomatic
 secrets or even kahn's the codebreakers.. paranoia, right?
 
 the most popular cipher systems in captured soviet spies was
 the one-time pad, even with the necessity of keeping incriminating
 evidence about, is known to be the only proven unbreakable system.
 soviet paranoia, right?
 
 and what do you think the nsa does with its wullenwebers?  and 
 huge rhombics pointed embassy row?  and their sites near
 satellite uplink and downlink sites?  duh.
 
 when i worked in a classified mitre communications lab at one time
 even with a "secret" clearance i had to be escorted to the toilet
 and the entire site was built into a mosler-type vault with *very*
 thick bomb-proof door.  mitre paranoia?
 
 i could cite probably a hundred more facts which all support, as
 best hypothesis, the notion that the nsa is grabbing as much as
 it can, as fast as it can.  one would be a fool to ignore the
 pattern of facts and conclude that they were random...
 
 and we know the government is violent -- even against children as
 recent events prove.  judge william sessions is a disgrace
 but a solemn warning to those who ignore the web of evidence
 that our government institutions have in their contempt for our
 civil rights.
 
 and of course we have to err somewhat on the excessive side of
 caution because that does much less harm than erring on the
 reckless side. as member of the crew of the uss liberty might aver.
 
 i might suggest, andrew, that you read kahn's codebreakers and
 bamford's puzzle palace and come back with some more facts to
 support your sheepish acquiescence to authority.
  
 -- 
 grady@netcom.com  2ef221 / 15 e2 ad d3 d1 c6 f3 fc  58 ac f7 3d 4f 01 1e 2f
 
 