
 in article <1r0ausinni01@senator-bedfellow.mit.edu> jfc@athena.mit.edu (john f carr) writes:
 >the chip and algorithm are classified.  if you reverse engineer it and
 >tell people, you are likely to go to jail.
 
 i don't find this a credible argument, for two reasons.  one you have
 supplied below: unless i care about entering the usa at any time in the
 future (eg. the taiwanese backyard cloners - who btw have been known to
 decap custom silicon and reproduce it on daughterboards when pirating
 high-profit arcade machines and the like - who wouldn't care less), i am not 
 going to care much about us confidentiality, am i?  only people like the
 real me, who does care about travelling to various countries for business
 reasons, will sit up and follow laws like this, but i would contend that
 we're not the main threat.
 
 i also have grave doubts whether an algorythm widely distributed in silicon
 could possibly be called "classified."  it's like handing out military
 secrets to the whole world in envelopes marked "don't open me."  i can
 imagine several credible defences which could be employed if it came to
 a trial.  one would be the stupidity of the government's actions.
 
 >perhaps some foreign governments or corporations could help us out by
 >cracking the system outside the usa.  the us government could probably
 >stop importation of clone hardware, but a software implementation
 >should be practical.
 
 amusing thought: could they have employed an algorythm which is infeasable
 for a fast software implementation, but which is easy in custom hardware?
 in des, the extensive use of permutation tables (trivial in hardware: you
 just swap bus lines), but relatively slow in software have had a big effect
 on the speed difference between hardware and software implementations of
 that cipher (indeed, i suspect that lucifer's designers were well aware that
 it would be, and approved.)  certain algorythms (usually parallel search
 algorythms) can be very slow in software, yet can fly in custom hardware.
 i have no proof of their employment in clipper -- it is pure conjecture.  
 however, as a software implementation of this cipher is something that its 
 designers would have been trying to avoid at all costs, then the inclusion 
 of such techniques seems credible.
 
 hmmm... i also wonder what intergraph thinks about the use of the name
 "clipper" for this device. :)
 
 --
 ian farquhar                      phone : + 61 2 805-9400
 office of computing services      fax   : + 61 2 805-7433
 macquarie university  nsw  2109   also  : + 61 2 805-7420
 australia                         email : ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au.
 