
 in article <19930419.155204.305@almaden.ibm.com> ameline@vnet.ibm.com (ian ameline) writes:
 >  i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip,
 >and knowlege of the algorithm will likely be fairly widespread. any back-
 >doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme, and help grow
 >the market demand for a secure alternative.
 
 i must admit that this point has been running through my mind for most of
 the discussion: one the dice are out there, it won't be long before someone
 decaps it and, after a bit of work, has full details of the clipper
 algorythm.  this isn't trivial to do, but then again, it is not impossibly
 difficult either.  any half way decent vlsi design student should be able
 to take a photograph of a technology s/he is familiar with, and given a
 description of the input, output, control and supply lines, figure out 
 the function of various subsystems on the die.  indeed, this is not an
 uncommon exercise performed during training (because it makes you think
 about design decisions made by other designers.
 
 i could speculate that these chips are going to be manufactured using
 "tamperproof" carriers (unlikely - such techniques are *very* expensive
 and this thing is supposed to be relatively cheap to produce), or that
 there will be some legal or legislative framework to prevent publication
 of the algorythm (unlikely - please correct me if i am wrong but aren't these
 supposed to be sold internationally?).  i suppose that the most likely
 reason the algorythm is remaining secret for the moment is that some idiot
 bureaucrat, untrammeled by the realities of the situation, decided that
 "well, we should keep it a secret because it is supposed to be secret,
 isn't it?"
 
 just some random thoughts...
 
 --
 ian farquhar                      phone : + 61 2 805-9400
 office of computing services      fax   : + 61 2 805-7433
 macquarie university  nsw  2109   also  : + 61 2 805-7420
 australia                         email : ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au.
 