
 in article <1r466c$an3@news.intercon.com> amanda@intercon.com (amanda walker) writes:
 >agreed.  remember, i don't even think of clipper as encryption in any real 
 >sense--if i did, i'd probably be a lot more annoyed about it.
 
 i agree with this assessment.  furthermore, its promotion as
 providing greater protection than bare voice is quite true, as far
 as it goes.  however, the only way for it to fulfill its stated goal
 of letting le wiretap "terrorists and drug dealers" is to restrict
 stronger techniques.  
 
 wiretap targets presently use strong encryption, weak encryption, or
 (the vast majority) no encryption.  the latter two classes can be
 tapped.  with weak encryption in every phone, the no-encryption
 class is merged into the weak-encryption class.  will the
 introduction of clipper cause targets presently enjoying strong
 privacy to give up on it?  that is, to rely for privacy on a system
 expressly designed to deny it to people like them?  i doubt it.  the
 mere introduction of this scheme will give the government *nothing*.
 
 the stated goal of preventing the degradation of wiretapping
 capabilities can be fulfilled by restriction of domestic
 cryptography, and only by this restriction.  "clipper" appears to be
 no more than a sop, given to the public to mute any complaints.  we
 would find this a grossly inadequate tradeoff, but i fear the public
 at large will not care.  i hate to even mention gun control, but
 most people seem to think that an `assault weapon' (as the nyt uses
 the word) is some sort of automatic weapon, .50 caliber maybe.  who
 wants to have such a thing legal?  well, people know even less about
 cryptology; i suspect that strong cryptography could easily be
 labeled "too much secrecy for law-abiding citizens to need".
 
 >that's not for clinton (or anyone under him) to say, though.  only the 
 >federal and supreme courts can say anything about the constitutionality.
 >anything the administration or any governmental agency says is opinion at 
 >best.
 
 what they say is opinion, but what they do is what matters, and will
 continue unless overturned.  and the courts are reluctant to annul
 law or regulation, going to some length to decide cases on other
 grounds.  furthermore, congress can get away with quite a bit.  they
 could levy a burdensome tax; this would place enforcement in the
 hands of the batf, who as we've seen you really don't want on your
 case.  they could invoke the commerce clause; this seems most
 likely.  this clause will get you anywhere these days.  the 18th was
 required because the supreme court ruled a prohibitory statute
 unconstitutional.  in 1970 congress prohibited many drugs, with a
 textual nod to the commerce clause.  the controlled substances
 act of 1970 still stands.  i think the government could get away
 with it.
 
 >amanda walker
 
 	 pgp 2 key by finger or e-mail
    eli   ebrandt@jarthur.claremont.edu
 
 
 