
 here is a revised version of my summary which corrects some errors
 and provides some additional information and explanation.
 
 
                      the clipper chip: a technical summary
 
                                dorothy denning
 
                            revised, april 21, 1993
 
 
 introduction
 
 on april 16, the president announced a new initiative that will bring
 together the federal government and industry in a voluntary program
 to provide secure communications while meeting the legitimate needs of
 law enforcement.  at the heart of the plan is a new tamper-proof encryption
 chip called the "clipper chip" together with a split-key approach to
 escrowing keys.  two escrow agencies are used, and the key parts from
 both are needed to reconstruct a key.
 
 
 chip contents
 
 the clipper chip contains a classified single-key 64-bit block
 encryption algorithm called "skipjack."  the algorithm uses 80 bit keys
 (compared with 56 for the des) and has 32 rounds of scrambling
 (compared with 16 for the des).  it supports all 4 des modes of
 operation.  the algorithm takes 32 clock ticks, and in electronic
 codebook (ecb) mode runs at 12 mbits per second.
 
 each chip includes the following components:
 
    the skipjack encryption algorithm
    f, an 80-bit family key that is common to all chips
    n, a 30-bit serial number (this length is subject to change)
    u, an 80-bit secret key that unlocks all messages encrypted with the chip
 
 the chips are programmed by mykotronx, inc., which calls them the
 "myk-78."  the silicon is supplied by vlsi technology inc.  they are
 implemented in 1 micron technology and will initially sell for about
 $30 each in quantities of 10,000 or more.  the price should drop as the
 technology is shrunk to .8 micron.
 
 
 encrypting with the chip
 
 to see how the chip is used, imagine that it is embedded in the at&t
 telephone security device (as it will be).  suppose i call someone and
 we both have such a device.  after pushing a button to start a secure
 conversation, my security device will negotiate an 80-bit session key k
 with the device at the other end.  this key negotiation takes place
 without the clipper chip.  in general, any method of key exchange can
 be used such as the diffie-hellman public-key distribution method.
 
 once the session key k is established, the clipper chip is used to
 encrypt the conversation or message stream m (digitized voice).  the
 telephone security device feeds k and m into the chip to produce two
 values:
 
    e[m; k], the encrypted message stream, and 
    e[e[k; u] + n; f], a law enforcement field , 
 
 which are transmitted over the telephone line.  the law enforcement
 field thus contains the session key k encrypted under the unit key u
 concatenated with the serial number n, all encrypted under the family
 key f.  the law enforcement field is decrypted by law enforcement after
 an authorized wiretap has been installed.
 
 the ciphertext e[m; k] is decrypted by the receiver's device using the
 session key:
 
    d[e[m; k]; k] = m .
 
 
 chip programming and escrow
 
 all clipper chips are programmed inside a scif (secure compartmented
 information facility), which is essentially a vault.  the scif contains
 a laptop computer and equipment to program the chips.  about 300 chips
 are programmed during a single session.  the scif is located at
 mykotronx.
 
 at the beginning of a session, a trusted agent from each of the two key
 escrow agencies enters the vault.  agent 1 enters a secret, random
 80-bit value s1 into the laptop and agent 2 enters a secret, random
 80-bit value s2. these random values serve as seeds to generate unit
 keys for a sequence of serial numbers.  thus, the unit keys are a
 function of 160 secret, random bits, where each agent knows only 80.
   
 to generate the unit key for a serial number n, the 30-bit value n is
 first padded with a fixed 34-bit block to produce a 64-bit block n1.
 s1 and s2 are then used as keys to triple-encrypt n1, producing a
 64-bit block r1:
 
         r1 = e[d[e[n1; s1]; s2]; s1] .
 
 similarly, n is padded with two other 34-bit blocks to produce n2 and
 n3, and two additional 64-bit blocks r2 and r3 are computed:  
 
         r2 = e[d[e[n2; s1]; s2]; s1] 
         r3 = e[d[e[n3; s1]; s2]; s1] .
 
 r1, r2, and r3 are then concatenated together, giving 192 bits. the
 first 80 bits are assigned to u1 and the second 80 bits to u2.  the
 rest are discarded.  the unit key u is the xor of u1 and u2.  u1 and u2
 are the key parts that are separately escrowed with the two escrow
 agencies.
 
 as a sequence of values for u1, u2, and u are generated, they are
 written onto three separate floppy disks.  the first disk contains a
 file for each serial number that contains the corresponding key part
 u1.  the second disk is similar but contains the u2 values.  the third
 disk contains the unit keys u.  agent 1 takes the first disk and agent
 2 takes the second disk.  thus each agent walks away knowing
 an 80-bit seed and the 80-bit key parts.  however, the agent does not
 know the other 80 bits used to generate the keys or the other 80-bit
 key parts.  
 
 the third disk is used to program the chips.  after the chips are
 programmed, all information is discarded from the vault and the agents
 leave.  the laptop may be destroyed for additional assurance that no
 information is left behind.
  
 the protocol may be changed slightly so that four people are in the
 room instead of two.  the first two would provide the seeds s1 and s2,
 and the second two (the escrow agents) would take the disks back to
 the escrow agencies. 
 
 the escrow agencies have as yet to be determined, but they will not
 be the nsa, cia, fbi, or any other law enforcement agency.  one or
 both may be independent from the government.
 
 
 law enforcement use
 
 when law enforcement has been authorized to tap an encrypted line, they
 will first take the warrant to the service provider in order to get
 access to the communications line.  let us assume that the tap is in
 place and that they have determined that the line is encrypted with the
 clipper chip.  the law enforcement field is first decrypted with the
 family key f, giving e[k; u] + n.  documentation certifying that a tap
 has been authorized for the party associated with serial number n is
 then sent (e.g., via secure fax) to each of the key escrow agents, who
 return (e.g., also via secure fax) u1 and u2.  u1 and u2 are xored
 together to produce the unit key u, and e[k; u] is decrypted to get the
 session key k.  finally the message stream is decrypted.  all this will
 be accomplished through a special black box decoder.
 
 
 capstone: the next generation
 
 a successor to the clipper chip, called "capstone" by the government
 and "myk-80" by mykotronx, has already been developed.  it will include
 the skipjack algorithm, the digital signature standard (dss), the
 secure hash algorithm (sha), a method of key exchange, a fast
 exponentiator, and a randomizer.  a prototoype will be available for
 testing on april 22, and the chips are expected to be ready for
 delivery in june or july.
 
 
 acknowledgment and distribution notice.  this article is based on
 information provided by nsa, nist, fbi, and mykotronx.  permission to
 distribute this document is granted.
 
 
     
 