
 
 
 	after reading the debate over the clipper, i have a few things to
 add.
 
 	first, most of the people i know who activly use encryption
 privately do not care about most of the issues that surround this debate,
 and any questions about what is or is not ok to use in the us. all they
 care about is wether or not what they are using is secure or not. that,
 after all is the bottom line. 
 
 	second, if i look at all the people i know who use any form
 of encryption at all, and this group spans people from the morons who
 still insist that the des is a good and secure standard, to people 
 looking at trying to improve upon existing strategies, i can not think
 of anyone of them who would approve blindly of a strategy that leaves
 their methods open to abuse. the clipper does this, because people make
 mistakes by nature, and the us government is made up of people who are
 just as vulnerable to mistakes as everyone else. 
 
 	third, since most of the people i know are at least marginaly
 familiar with the vulnerabilities present in current software encryption
 stratigies, i can't see how most of them are going to blindly trust that
 someone will not figure out a good way to compromise the clipper chip.
 that despite any strengths or weaknesses that may exist in it. so, i can 
 not see a high degree of confidence developing in the chip.
 
 	fourth, when it comes to criminal abuse, sure there are many stupid
 people out there. and yes, some will be open to being caught via the 
 built in back door of the clipper chip. however, anyone who is going to
 do any serious investigation of how best to secure their data is going
 to run into that problem pretty damned fast and, i would assume, start
 looking around for other easily obtainible methods of encryption. 
 
 
 	if nothing else were avalible, none of this would be an issue. however,
 the truth is that most private encryption users that i've ever run into
 simply do not give a damn about the legal status of rsa or pgp or anything
 else. if it works, they use it. this is not going to change either. i do
 not think for a moment that anyone with serious criminal intent will be
 slowed down by the advent of the clipper chip. it is all to easy to 
 convert encrypted data into unintellgible garbage as it is, if anything,
 the clipper chip just adds another tool to the user.
 
 
 	the bottom line here is that people will use what works, and
 unavoidibly, i'm sure most criminals would rather face an encryption
 related charge than one which could potentialy lead to death penalty
 charges in the case of criminals who murder as part of their conspiricy.
 	the other thing that has struck me since the advent and wide 
 useage of public encryption has begun is that quite simply the cat is
 out of the bag (or if you have an interest in snooping, pandora's box
 has been opened), and this is not going to change. i've seen a blindness
 to this that i've found utterly stunning, and the clipper chip, along
 with the way it has been presented only confirms this to me to a larger
 degree.
 
 
 			sincerly,
 
 			tim scanlon
 
 -- 
 
 tfs@gravity.gmu.edu
 