
               would wiretap chip be cost-effective?
 
                         by robin hanson
                      draft, april 21, 1993
 
   summary: compared to an average monthly phone bill of sixty dollars,
   wiretaps are only worth two cents a month to police.  so the
   proposed wiretap chip must raise phone costs by less than one part 
   in three thousand to be cost-effective. 
 
 background
 
 until now, phones have happened to allow the existence of "wiretaps",
 detectors which could pick up conversations on a phone line.  and over
 time, law enforcement agencies have come to rely on this capability to
 aid in criminal investigations.  however, powerful new encryption
 technologies threaten this status quo, by making possible truly
 private communication.  a small chip in each phone could soon make it
 literally impossible to overhear a conversation without physical
 microphones at either end.
 
 in order to preserve the ability of law enforcement agencies to tap
 phone conversations, the u.s. government announced on april 16, 1993
 that it had developed and begun manufacturing a special "wiretap" chip
 to be placed in future phones, instead of the total privacy chips
 which have been under private development.  the same day, at&t
 announced it would use these chips "in all its secure telephone
 products".
 
 each chip would be created under government supervision, when it would
 be given a fixed indentifier and encryption key.  periodically during
 each conversation, the chip would broadcast its identifier and other
 info in a special "law enforcement block".  law enforcement officers
 with a court order could then obtain the key corresponding to the
 indentifier from special trust agencies, and could thereby listen in
 on any future or previously recorded conversations on that phone.
 
 to date, most concerns voiced about this plan have been about its
 security.  the government won't disclose the encryption algorithm, and
 many suspect the government will not limit its access in the way it
 has claimed.  the track record of previous governments does not
 inspire confidence on this point [1].
 
 however, this paper will neglect these concerns, and ask instead
 whether this new wiretap chip is a cost-effective tool for police
 investigation.  that is, which is a cheaper way for society to
 investigate crime: force phone communications to support wiretaps, or
 give police agencies more money to investigate crimes in other ways?
 or to put it another way, would police agencies be willing to pay for
 each wiretap, if they had to pay their share of the full social cost
 of forcing phones to support wiretaps?
 
 to start to answer this question, we might compare the current
 benefits wiretaps provide to law enforcement agencies with projected
 costs of implementing the new wiretap chip plan.  and since current
 benefits are easier to estimate, we begin there.
 
 wiretap benefits
 
 1990 is the latest year for which wiretap statistics are available
 [2].  in that year, 872 wiretap installations were requested, and no
 requests were denied.  (this figure does not include wiretaps obtained
 with the consent of a party to the conversation.)  2057 arrests
 resulted from wiretaps started the same year, 1486 arrests came from
 wiretaps in previous years, and 55% of arrests led to convictions.
 76% of the wiretaps were for phones (vs pagers, email, etc.), 60% were
 regarding drug offenses, and 40% were requested by federal
 authorities.  each wiretap installation heard an average of 1487
 calls, 22% of them incriminating, among 131 people, and cost an
 average of $45,125 (extrapolating from the 794 installations
 reporting costs), mostly for labor.
 
 thus a total of about $40 million was spent on wiretaps, to obtain
 about 4000 arrests, at $10,000 per arrest.  thus these arrests are at
 least four times more expensive than the $2500 per arrest figure one
 gets by dividing the $28 billion spent by all police nationally by the
 total 11 million non-traffic arrests [3].  thus the $30 million per
 year spent on phone taps is only one thousanth of the total police
 expenditures.  and if we divide this by the 138 million phone "access"
 lines in the country [3], we get about 23 cents spent per year per
 phone line, or about two cents a month.
 
 in general, we deter a given class of criminals through a combination
 of a perceived probability of being caught and convicted, and some
 expected punishment level if convicted.  so the social value of having
 wiretaps is no more than the amount that we would have to pay to get
 the same criminal deterrence through other means.  if unable to
 wiretap a particular suspect's phone, police might instead use hidden
 microphones, or investigate that suspect in other ways.  or police
 might focus on suspects more easily investigated without wiretaps.  or
 we might raise the fine or prison time for certain types of crime.
 
 if we generously assume that these substitutes for wiretaps would be
 on average twice as expensive as wiretaps, then the annual social
 benefit of phone wiretaps is about equal to the current spending level
 of two cents a month per phone line.
 
 wiretap costs
 
 let us for the moment optimistically assume that the us government
 encryption scheme is as secure as whatever private enterprise would
 have offered instead, protecting our conversations from the spying
 ears of neighbors, corporations, and governments, both foreign and
 domestic.  even so, the need to support wiretaps would add many
 additional costs to build and maintain our communication system.
 
 extra law enforcement blocks would be added to phone transmissions,
 increasing traffic by some unknown percentage.  a special process must
 be used to add encryption keys to chips, while securely distributing
 these keys to special agencies, which must be funded and monitored.
 the chips themselves are designed by a military contractor, whose
 design is to remain secret, and are manufactured through a special
 process so that the chip becomes nearly impossible to take apart.
 (chips are now offered at the relatively high price of $30 a peice in
 lots of 10,000 [4].)  private encryption systems not supporting
 wiretaps would require none of these extra costs.
 
 perhaps most important, government degree would at least partially
 replace private marketplace evolution of standards for how voice is to
 be represented, encrypted, and exchanged in our future phones.  it is
 widely believed that governments are less efficient than private
 enterprise in procuring products and standards, though they may perhaps
 perform a useful brokering role when we choose between competing private
 standards.  how much less efficient is a matter of debate, some say
 they pay twice as much, while others might say only 10% more.    
 
 currently, a total of $96 billion is spent as operating expenses of
 u.s. phone companies [3], which comes out to about $60 per month per
 access line.  if we compare this to the wiretap value of two cents per
 month, we see that if wiretaps raise average operating costs by even
 as much as one part in 3000, then wiretaps are not cost effective!
 and this doesn't even include extra costs phone owners pay because
 their encryption chips are more expensive.  of course most phones
 wouldn't have encryption chips for a while, but the wiretap benefit
 per phone is still the same, so this argument still applies.
 
 conclusion
 
 given this dramatic difference between the total cost of running the
 phone system and the value of wiretaps, we can justify only the
 slightest modification of the phone system to accommodate wiretaps.
 when the only modification required was to allow investigators in to
 attach clips to phone wires, wiretap support may have been reasonable.
 but when we consider substantial modification, the burden of proof is
 clearly on those proposing such modification to show that the costs
 would really be less than the benefits.  
 
 if consensus cannot be obtain on this cost/benefit estimate, a
 compromise might be to tax phones which do not support wiretaps at a
 rate of say five cents per month, a tax payable to police agencies
 nationwide to compensate them for their loss of wiretap abilities.
 
 [1] the invisible weapon, oxford press, isbn 0-19-506273-6
 
 [2] report on applications for orders authorizing or approving the
     interception of wire, oral, or electronic communications, 1990,
     administrative office of u.s. courts, washington, dc 20544.
 
 [3] u.s. statistical abstracts, 1992.  
 
 [4] dorothy denning, "the clipper chip: a technical summary",
     distributed to sci.crypt newsgroup april 21, 1993. 
 -- 
 robin hanson  hanson@ptolemy.arc.nasa.gov 
 415-604-3361  ms-269-2, nasa ames research center, moffett field, ca 94035
 510-651-7483  47164 male terrace, fremont, ca  94539-7921 
 