
 
      ever since craig rowland posted his piece "new encryption"
 to sci.crypt there has been some discussion of our company,
 secured communications technologies, inc, and on encryption
 algorithm, nea.
      i spoke to craig at length on 4/21/93 and we covered a lot
 of ground.  some of the information in the posting requires some
 clarification, and i would like to answer some of the questions
 raised on sci.crypt.
      sct is a small company based in silver spring maryland.  our
 two main products at this time are a pc based secure
 communications program called secom and a general purpose
 encryption chip which uses the nea algorithm developed for secom.
      secom provides an encrypted secure communication link
 between two pc's connected over dial up telephone lines.  it
 supports simultaneous bi-directional file transfer and keyboard
 to screen "chat".  it has its own proprietary communications
 protocol which is tightly integrated to the encryption.  all
 though it is a packetized link, the data stream appears to be
 continuous because the packet boundaries are hidden.
      when secom was initially developed, it was implemented to
 use des encryption.  a business decision was made to seek export
 approval for the product because it was perceived that the
 overseas market was a large one and provided a good marketing
 opportunity.
      we soon found out that we would never be granted general
 export approval for anything using des.  all though the reason
 for this was never explicitly stated, it seems to have something
 to do with secret government to government agreements which are
 still in effect.
      in any event, the decision was made to develop a new and
 different algorithm which would take the place of des.  this was
 the reason nea (new encryption algorithm) was born.
      at this time nea is being held as a trade secret.  the
 preliminary work of patenting it has begun, and the plan is to
 make it public once the patent process is complete.  all though
 one can make certain legal arguments for keeping it an ongoing
 secret, i think in the case of an encryption algorithm it is
 necessary to let people "shoot at it" over an extended period of
 time to prove its worth.
      in order to get export approval for secom/nea, it was
 necessary to go through nsa and to reveal to them the details of
 the program and algorithm.  this was done only after we had a
 finished product to submit.
      let me state unequivocally that there is no "back door" to
 the program or the algorithm.  secured communications
 technologies is a closely held private company and
 nsa/fbi/cia/nist/whatever has no financial interest in any way
 whatsoever with the company or any of the people involved.
      from a practical business standpoint, we are interested in
 selling chips and software (hopefully in large quantities) and a
 back door to the encryption, if found out, could destroy our
 credibility and our business.
      with the encryption algorithm approved for export, we set
 out to talk to a number of potential customers for encryption
 products and systems.  we were able to identify several common
 threads of functionality requirements.  this led to the design of
 a chip with the encryption algorithm "cast in silicon" and
 certain other capabilities added so that the chip could fulfill
 the broad range of requirements that we identified.
      we are strongly opposed to the clipper/capstone chips.  in a
 press release today, our president, dr. stephen bryen stated:
 
           "it seems as if the government has an unlimited source
      of funds to use to push its new bugged chips on the american
      public.  but do we not understand how the national security
      agency, which is not supposed to be involved in domestic
      spying, can fund the development of a commercial chip
      intended to accommodate u.s. government domestic spying
      activities."
 
      if they had asked me to put a "back door" in nea i would
 have told them to g__ f____ed.
      can nsa break nea?  or for that matter can they break des,
 rsa, idea, diffy-hellman, pgp, rc2, rc4, or whatever?  i don't
 know and probably never will.
 