
 in article <1993apr19.182327.3420@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu> denning@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes:
 >the following document summarizes the clipper chip, how it is used,
 >how programming of the chip is coupled to key generation and the
 >escrow process, and how law enforcement decrypts communications.
 
 interesting.  tell us, what happens if i were to say ok, i want to have
 something else.  if the law enforcement wants my traffic, they can record
 it, then get a search warrant, and get the keys from me, just like they
 would the keys to a stout private safe, etc. (lets say i suspect that
 there is a way to trivially crack this at the fed level, with no warrant,
 say for nsa scanning for keywords, etc., and the government has abused
 great power in the past...).
 
 so i say "mr vendor, i want something different, independent.  i am
 a paranoid sort, ya understand...".
 
 will the result be "sorry, without government permission, we cannot sell
 you anything secure", or would it be "sorry, we know which side our
 bread is buttered on, we cannot sell except to government people, law
 enforcement, and 'special' people...".
 
 what, in your opinion, would be the chances of "sure, we will sell you
 this secure system ... be happy to..."
 
 also, please be so kind as to tell us what the plans are for private
 encryption of, say files transferred by modem, or ftp, or data stored
 on disk?  surely you have a feel for what the administration is planning
 for us people on that....  with your rather intimate relationship with
 the fbi, nsa, etc. you must certainly have an idea.  you are surely
 not going to say "the people are not to know, until it is too late..."
 this is supposed to be government of the people by the people, isn't
 it?  that is, the people are the government's bosses?  the bosses
 want to know what the *@()#*&(@ is going on here...
 
 you see, i am kind of nervous, because in the last month or so, i have
 seen a non-stop stream of ideas coming out of wash dc that at least
 appear very strongly to have a common trait to limit privacy (freedom
 from govt eavesdropping), and the ability to defend ourselves against
 violent attack (no, 911 is *not* good enough for 'common folk', they
 arrive only in time to clean up the mess: i would be dead if i had to
 depend on 911...).   you see, with all that talk about national smart
 id cards, limiting of encryption to 'government approved', denial of
 means to effective personal defense (eight bills in congress right now),
 it looks an awfully lot like the whole thing is to be able to trace
 every activity of an individual from cradle to grave.  all it would take
 is requiring that national id card to be used in all transactions...
 and with no effective data protection, and with the people suitably
 disarmed, there would not be a helluva lot they could do about it, now
 would there?  all in the name of the war on the constitu ... er ...
 drugs, and of course that catch word 'terrorists'.  what is wrong with
 good old-fashioned police work to build a case?  they don't want to
 have to be burdened to leave the office, it seems...
 
 please read the bill of rights (first ten amendments to the us
 constitution) and tell us how you can reconcile this big brother-ish
 policy of the administration (always for a 'crisis' of some kind, isn't
 it?) with that bill of rights in the context of the people who wrote
 it?
 
 reassure us - please... (or is that no longer regarded as necessary,
 seeing as apparantly the people have no input on this agenda, the
 administration preferring to make all the decisions in secret, then
 springing it on us...).  doesn't sound much like ... by the people
 to me.  i cannot help notice that the congress people involved were
 not mentioned on the press release.  i find that more than a little
 bit curious, don't you?  i sure would like to know who to not vote
 for come election time...
 
 yes, i am upset.  i feel you are a part of this, because i recall it
 was you that was posting heavily in favor of a very similar idea (could
 have been the same thing, it was so close) a few months ago...  i
 also recall it was not well received.  apparantly powers-that-be
 really didn't care (or were not told, or both).
 
 from what i see, clipper will only be useful for conversations i don't
 want the neighborhood kid listening in on.  any serious security i don't
 think i would want to trust it a bit.  might as well use cleartext.
 certainly corporations would be rather dumb to depend on this for serious
 trade-secret data, especially if millions depended on that security.
 given enough money, one could buy any keys they wanted.  buy a crooked
 judge, and a crooked cop.   given a few hundred thou, they wouldn't be
 hard to find.  so, we end up with only criminals, terrorists, and the
 government with real security, and the ability to eavesdrop.  you know
 the first two, if they are serious, ain't going to use this thing for
 their communications.  i bet the government won't, either (except perhaps
 to order a pizza).
 
 tell us, will that be prima face evidence of criminal activity,
 someone not using the 'government approved' methods?  that just a desire
 to have privacy is no longer regarded as a legitimate right of an
 unconnected citizen?  will that be grounds for a fly-through-the-door
 raid, and confiscation of all one's equipment, as 'terrorist tools',
 using civil forfeiture, so there will be no inconvenient need to
 prove any wrongdoing on the part of the citizen?
 
 i have yet another question, are we going to see articles in all the
 public magazines, consisting of soothing text telling us how great
 this is, how nice the government is by letting us have this illusion
 of privacy?  that the government is going to be so kind as to let
 us 'sort of' exercise a right?  what you want to bet that i am
 correct here?
 
 please answer these questions.  as citizens of the united states, we
 hava a right to know what our government plans to 'let' us have
 out of the goodness of their hearts...
 
 funny thing, though - with all these proposals, i don't feel one bit
 safer from drug dealers, terrorists, or a common street thug.  i am
 beginning to wonder if the greater danger lies in the above entities,
 or our own government gone out of control?
 
 re-assure us, please.  so far, i haven't seen much to reassure me...
 and a lot to greatly disturb me.
 
 -- 
 pat@rwing.uucp      [without prejudice ucc 1-207]     (pat myrto) seattle, wa
          if all else fails, try:       ...!uunet!pilchuck!rwing!pat
 wisdom: "only two things are infinite; the universe and human stupidity,
          and i am not sure about the former."              - albert einstien
 