
 in article <1993apr22.223906.25929@lehman.com> pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes:
 >qualcomm had spare cycles in the dsps for their new cdma digital
 >cellular phones. they wanted to put strong crypto into them since they
 >had the capacity. the government decided to "discourage" them.
 
 you're blowing smoke.  qualcomm wants to sell to nice, lucrative overseas
 markets like japan and the ec.  the government told them "don't do encryption
 if you ever hope to export this technology".  the reason that cdma doesn't
 have encryption is not because the g-men came a'knocking at qualcomm's door.
 it's because qualcomm doesn't think that the us market for digital cellular
 is big enough for them.  this is just the international traffic in arms
 regulations all over again.
 
 if you don't believe me, call qualcomm and ask them.  don't just throw
 out conspicracy theories.  at least, don't do it on sci.crypt--there are
 whole other newsgroups devoted to this kind of uninformed claptrap.
 
 >any "normal" company trying to put one out will likely get a visit
 >from the boys in the dark suits from washington, just like qualcomm
 >did. i suspect that companies like cylink are tolerated because their
 >products are too expensive.
 
 hah.  they're not that much more expensive.  besides, if a drug dealer
 can afford a rolex and a mercedes, he can darn well afford cylink phones.
 no, cylink sells their phones because they're willing to make different
 stuff for domestic use vs. export.  qualcomm isn't.  so cylink makes
 money--that's capitalism, comrade.
 
 >someone out there will build a unit to do all this. better yet,
 >prehaps someone will produce a package that turns any 486 box with a
 >sound card into a secure phone.
 
 "someone" this and "someone" that.  if you think it's so easy, why are
 you whining on the net instead of getting your butt in gear and writing
 it?  your name would become known and loved by dozens!  but no, that would
 require actual effort.
 
 					-= servalan =-
 