
 scottmi@microsoft.com (scott miller (techcom)) writes:
 >stikes me that all this concern over the government's ability
 >to eavesdrop is a little overblown... what can't they do today?
 >my understanding is that they already can tap, listen, get access
 >exc. to our phone lines, bank records, etc. etc again.
 
 well, they can't listen in on much of mine, since i already use
 cryptography for much of my electronic mail, and will start using it
 for my telephony as soon as practical.
 
 however, allow me to tell a parable.
 
 there was once a far away land called ruritania, and in ruritania
 there was a strange phenonmenon -- all the trees that grew in
 ruritainia were transparent. now, in the days when people had lived in
 mud huts, this had not been a problem, but now high-tech wood
 technology had been developed, and in the new age of wood, everyone in
 ruritania found that their homes were all 100% see through. now, until
 this point, no one ever thought of allowing the police to spy on
 someone's home, but the new technology made this tempting. this being
 a civilized country, however, warrants were required to use binoculars
 and watch someone in their home. the police, taking advantage of this,
 would get warrants to use binoculars and peer in to see what was going
 on. occassionally, they would use binoculars without a warrant, but
 everyone pretended that this didn't happen.
 
 one day, a smart man invented paint -- and if you painted your house,
 suddenly the police couldn't watch all your actions at will. things
 would go back to the way they were in the old age -- completely
 private.
 
 indignant, the state decided to try to require that all homes have
 video cameras installed in every nook and cranny. "after all", they
 said, "with this new development crime could run rampant. installing
 video cameras doesn't mean that the police get any new capability --
 they are just keeping the old one."
 
 a wise man pointed out that citizens were not obligated to make the
 lives of the police easy, that the police had survived all through the
 mud hut age without being able to watch the citizens at will, and that
 ruritania was a civilized country where not everything that was
 expedient was permitted. for instance, in a neighboring country, it
 had been discovered that torture was an extremely effective way to
 solve crimes. ruritania had banned this practice in spite of its
 expedience. indeed, "why have warrants at all", he asked, "if we are
 interested only in expedience?"
 
 a famous paint technologist, dorothy quisling, intervened however. she
 noted that people might take photographs of children masturbating
 should the new paint technology be widely deployed without safeguards,
 and the law was passed.
 
 soon it was discovered that some citizens would cover their mouths
 while speaking to each other, thus preventing the police from reading
 their lips through the video cameras. this had to be prevented, the
 police said. after all, it was preventing them from conducting their
 lawful surveilance. the wise man pointed out that the police had never
 before been allowed to listen in on people's homes, but dorothy
 quisling pointed out that people might use this new invention of
 covering their mouths with veils to discuss the kidnapping and
 mutilation of children. no one in the legislature wanted to be accused
 of being in favor of mutilating children, but then again, no one
 wanted to interfere in people's rights to wear what they liked, so a
 compromise was reached whereby all homes were installed with
 microphones in each room to accompany the video cameras. the wise man
 lamented few if any child mutilations had ever been solved by the old
 lip reading technology, but it was too late -- the microphones were
 installed everwhere.
 
 however, it was discovered that this was insufficient to prevent
 citizens from hiding information from the authorities, because some of
 them would cleverly speak in languages that the police could not
 understand. a new law was proposed to force all citizens to speak at
 all times only in ruritanian, and, for good measure, to require that
 they speak clearly and distinctly near the microphones. "after all",
 dorothy quisling pointed out, "they might be using the opportunity to
 speak in private to mask terrorist activities!"  terrorism struck
 terror into everyone's hearts, and they rejoiced at the brulliance of
 this new law.
 
 meanwhile, the wise man talked one evening to his friends on how all
 of this was making a sham of the constitution of ruritania, of which
 all ruritanians were proud. "why", he asked, "are we obligated to
 sacrifice all our freedom and privacy to make the lives of the police
 easier? there isn't any real evidence that this makes any big dent in
 crime anyway! all it does is make our privacy forfeit to the state!"
 
 however, the wise man made the mistake of saying this, as the law
 required, in ruritanian, clearly and distinctly, and near a
 microphone.  soon, the newly formed ruritanian secret police arrived
 and took him off, and got him to confess by torturing him. torture
 was, after all, far more efficient than the old methods, and had been
 recently instituted to stop the recent wave of people thinking obscene
 thoughts about tomatoes, which dorothy quisling noted was one of the
 major problems of the new age of plenty and joy.
 
 --
 perry metzger		pmetzger@shearson.com
 --
 laissez faire, laissez passer. le monde va de lui meme.
 