
 in article <1993apr22.222016.25628@lehman.com>, pmetzger@snark.shearson.com (perry e. metzger) writes:
 > you obviously haven't read the information about the system. the chips
 > put out serial number infomation into the cypher stream to allow
 > themselves to be identified. the system does not rely on registering
 > people as owning particular phone units.
 > 
 > i am against the proposal, but lets be accurate in our objections.
 > 
 
 do not presume to tell me what i have and have not read.  the system may
 not rely upon registering people as owning particular phone units, but
 it is necessary to know which phone units are likely to be used for some
 suspected criminal communication before you can obtain their unit keys
 from escrow.  this necessity raises the stakes in favor of a criminal's
 coercing or colluding use of some other person's clipper phone.
 
 i will restate my assumptions more explicitly and amplify my argument.
 the original title perhaps should have been "distinction between legal
 and illegal cipher systems considered harmful", but "clipper considered
 harmful" is not inaccurate, and is more eye-catching in the current context.
 
 assumptions:
 
   1.  clipper is made available.
 
   2.  laws are passed to make use of cipher systems other than clipper illegal
       (either on radio systems, or on any common carrier system).  these laws
       also include enforcement authority to listen across the relevant radio
       spectrum (or other medium), characterize signals, validate clipper
       wrappers, detect probable use of non-clipper ciphers, and make such
       detection a cause for further action.
 
   3.  for escrowed keys to be useful, some specific clipper chip must be
       associated with a suspected criminal.  this means that at a minimum
       some association between the common carrier's unique phone id (esn) and
       the clipper chip serial number n will be stored in a government database.
       an observed pairing of n and esn other than the one recorded raises a
       red flag.
 
   4.  to reduce ordinary fraud, the cellphone system which offers clipper
       will also be constructed with an esn mechanism much more tamper-proof
       and much less spoofable than today's cellphones.
 
   5.  criminals want inscrutable communications.  some criminals are not
       entirely stupid or ignorant, and will figure out both that clipper
       cellphones offer excellent security in normal circumstances, and that
       they offer no security against law enforcement once a (presumably
       legitimate) wiretap order exists.  they will also figure out that the
       wiretap order must necessarily be against a specific cellphone, because
       each one has a unique unit key.
 
   6.  criminals do not want to call attention to themselves.  because they
       are not stupid or ignorant (or because they read netnews), and because
       they know that their open use of a non-clipper cipher is likely to be
       detected, they will generally avoid using non-clipper ciphers directly
       on some monitorable/tappable channel.  they know that do so would raise
       a red flag, putting a given cellphone (if not a given person) under
       immediate suspicion.
 
   7.  it is impractical to reverse engineer skipjack, discover family key f,
       and construct a functional clone of a clipper chip.
 
 by #2, #3, #4, and #7 it will be very difficult to spoof a given clipper
 phone without immediate detection.  because it is difficult to obscure one's
 association to a specific phone by reprogramming or changing chips
 around, the criminal will be motivated to find an intact phone which is
 associated with someone else.
 
 a non-stupid criminal will conclude that they can have clipper-secure
 communications, at least for some limited time t, if they buy, beg, borrow,
 or steal use of someone's phone in a way that prevents that person from
 reporting compromise of the phone for at least time t.  the encrypted
 communications might have been recorded, and thus be retrievable later,
 but the criminal can delay, and quite likely evade, discovery by destroying
 or abandoning the phone before t elapses.
 
 it would be unusual for an innocent person to volunteer use of their clipper
 phone to someone else.  the honest subscriber doesn't want to pay someone
 else's bill, and he doesn't want to fall under suspicion.
 
 this leaves two sources of clipper phones for criminal use: coercion
 and collusion.
 
 coercion first.  theft bears a relatively low risk, but also sometimes
 a low time until detection (a few minutes if a phone is stolen from
 a car parked in front of a store, a couple of weeks if a phone is stolen
 from someone who is away on vacation).  criminal commerce is likely to
 arise in stolen clipper phones, with phones coming from risk-inured poor
 criminals, and cash coming from risk-averse wealthy criminals.  someone
 who is extraordinarily motivated to gain a day or two of undetected
 communication (like a terrorist) could kill a person or hold them hostage.
 the limited time (before detection) that a coerced phone is useful means
 that continuing criminal enterprises require a continuing supply of
 freshly coerced phones.
 
 there would also be created a collusive commerce between relatively
 wealthy criminals, and ignorant or don't-care patsies who need money,
 and who will submit to being paid in return for subscribing to clipper
 phone service for someone else's use.
 
 criminals will learn that it is more to their advantage to coerce use of a
 clipper cellphone than it is to apply a non-clipper cipher to a normal
 cellphone.  they will call much less attention to themselves (or at least to
 their stolen phone) this way.  the fact of a phone's use being coerced must
 first be reported before it can be identified as an interesting phone, and
 have its keys obtained from escrow.
 
 clipper also allows an extraordinary opportunity for the criminal to
 conceal use of super-encryption.  an automated full-system surveillance
 mechanism (quite feasible across radio bandwidth) which knows family key f,
 can validate clipper wrappers and n:esn associations, but it cannot reveal
 in realtime the use of super-encryption, unless it knows all unit keys,
 which we are being assured are only to be made available in two separate
 pieces, upon specific wiretap-like order.
 
 whereas a criminal's use of any cipher within a normally cleartext medium
 would stand out, a criminal's use of a non-clipper cipher within a clipper
 medium would be very difficult to detect, even ex post facto in bulk
 recordings, as long as the association between criminal and specific clipper
 chip is fractured.
 
 if you make use of this other cipher illegal per se, then you can charge
 the criminal with this (if you can identify the true criminal - he'll be
 using someone else's phone), but you'll have no evidence to help you against
 whatever traditional crime he might have been planning.  you will not even be
 able to detect that unusual (encrypted) communications are occurring until you
 identify specific phones and obtain their keys from escrow.
 
 the gangster and terrorist are thus arguably more, not less, secure than
 they were before clipper came along.
 
 i therefore consider clipper harmful because:
 
   1.  it does not provide absolute privacy to the honest public against
       aggressive or dishonest government.
 
   2.  if other ciphers are proscribed, it engenders new types of direct
       criminal threat to the honest public.
 
   3.  it provides an extraordinarily effective mechanism for criminals to
       hide their use of some other cipher, making it more difficult than
       ever even to gain notice that unusual communications are occurring
       and that plans for some criminal act might be in progress.
 
   4.  if other ciphers are proscribed, lazy investigators and prosecutors
       are more likely to pursue the easily quantifiable cipher-use crime
       than they are the traditional and directly harmful crimes which key
       escrow is claimed to help against.
 
   5.  if other ciphers are proscribed, the stage is set for witch hunting
       of "illegal" cipher use.  because any computer can be used as a cipher
       machine...
 
 brad yearwood    brad@optilink.com     {uunet, pyramid}!optilink!brad
 petaluma, ca
 