
 (alt.security.clipper added, to keep them informed of this issue)
 
 
 david sternlight (strnlght@netcom.com) wrote:
 ....
 : the proposal could be modified so that if they get a court order to tap you
 : and don't charge you with a crime within, say, 90 days, they have to buy you
 : a new phone.
 : 
 : if they do charge you, and you are found innocent, they have to buy you a
 : new phone.
 : 
 : :-)
 
 yes, but will they buy you a ticket on a time machine to allow you to
 go back and use the phone with the new key instead of the phone whose
 key they obtained?
 
 it is unclear whether obtaining the key at time 0 also unlocks
 messages recorded (by whomever) at earlier times. the announcement was
 silent on this. the betting seems to be that once your key has been
 obtained (by the authorities, by divorce lawyers, by the mafia, by the
 fbi, by lost or stolen backup tapes, by the nsa, etc.). all previous
 conversations are unsecure. (session keys are negotiated, but knowing
 the private key is believed by many commentators here to break the
 security. no doubt more details will emerge.)
 
 so, the loss of a key, whether one is guilty or innocent, may mean a lot
 more than merely replacing the phone.
 
 sort of like saying to someone, "oh, i copied your diary. but i'll buy
 you a new one."
 
 
 and the system, if made mandatory (as i expect), will make such
 storing of conversations much easier, i fear. for one thing, the
 transmission of the escrow key field acts as a clear signal to anyone
 listening, a kind of "caller id" and "callee id" on a grand scale.
 also, the phone companies may not care as much about protecting the
 privacy of the calls, as they perceive them all to be useless
 encrypted junk. (this is a bit of a reach, i know, suggesting that the
 clipper will make security more lax...).
 
 anyway, still lots of issues unresolved.
 
 
 -tim may
 
 
 -- 
 ..........................................................................
 timothy c. may         | crypto anarchy: encryption, digital money,  
 tcmay@netcom.com       | anonymous networks, digital pseudonyms, zero
 408-688-5409           | knowledge, reputations, information markets, 
 w.a.s.t.e.: aptos, ca  | black markets, collapse of governments.
 higher power: 2^756839 | public key: pgp and mailsafe available.
 
 