
 hello all,
 i thought you all might like to see this. it's a letter from jerry
 berman to david chaum from november of 1985, in response to
 information that mr. chaum sent to mr. berman.
 
 while i have to congratulate eff for its prompt response to the
 clipper chip announcement from the white house, i think it's important
 to recognize the philosophy of their executive director, as explained
 below.
 
 i agree that legal remedies are important, but when pressed, i'd
 prefer to retain the ability to use purely technical solutions to
 preserve my privacy, because they'll hold up under fire.
 
 mr. chaum has consented to the publication of this letter on the net. 
 
 i don't work for, nor am i a member of eff, aclu, or any similar
 organizations, but i do agree with them on a great many things. 
 
 					--aristophanes
 
 ----------
 
 
                      american civil liberties union
 
 
                        washington office        
                                                                
                                                     122 maryland avenue, ne
  november 1, 1985                                   washington, dc 20002
                                                     --------------------
                                                     national headquarters
 mr. david chaum                                     132 west 43rd street    
 centre for mathematics and computer science         new york. ny 10036    
 p.o. box 4079                                       (212) 944-9800        
 19o9 ab amsterdam                                   norman dorsen           
                                               president        
 dear mr. chaum:                                     ira glasser
                                                       executive director
                                                     eleanor holmes norton
                                                       chair
                                                     national advisory       
                                                   council
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                             
  
                                               
 
 	thank you for sending me a most interesting article.   a
 society of  individuals  and  organizations  that  would  expend  the
 time and resources to use a  series  of  'digital  pseudonyms' to
 avoid data linkage does not in my opinion make big brother
 obsolete but  acts  on  the  assumption  that  big  brother  is  ever
 present.  i  view  your  system  as  a  form  of  societal  paranoia.
 
 	as a matter of  principle,  we  are  working  to  enact  formal
 legal protections for  individual  privacy  rather  than  relying  on
 technical solutions.   we want to  assume  a  society  of  law  which
 respects legal limits rather than  a  society  that  will  disobey  the
 law, requiring  citizens  to  depend  on  technical  solutions.  e.g.
 require  a  judical  warrant  for  government  interception  of  data
 communications rather than  encrypt  all  messages  on  the  assumption
 that regardless of the lawt  the  government  will  abuse  its  power
 and invade privacy.
 
 	as a  matter  of  practicality,  i  do  not  think  your  system
 offers much hope for privacy.    first, the trend toward universal
 identifiers  is  as  much.-a  movement  generated  by  government  or
 industry's desire to keep track of all citizens as it is by
 citizens seeking simplicity and convenience in all transactions.
 at best,  your  system  would  benefit  the  sophisticated  and  most
 would opt for  simplicity.  the  poor  and  the  undereducated  would
 never use or benefit from it.
 
 	finally where there's a  will, there's  a  way. if  government
 wants to link data bases, it  will,  by  law, require  the  disclosure
 of various individual pseudonyms used by citizens or prohibit it
 for data bases which the government wants to link.      since
 corporations  make  money  by  trading  commercial  lists  with   one
 another, they will never adopt  the  system  or  if  it  is  adopted,
 will use "fine printn  contracts  to  permit  selling  various   codes
 used by their customers to other firms.
 
 	the solution remains law, policy, and consensus about limits
 on government or corporate intrusion into areas of individual
 autonomy.  technique can be used to enforce that consensus or to
 override it. it cannot be used as a substitute for such
 consensus.
 
 
 
                                             sincerely yours,
 
                                              /sig/
 
                                             jerry j. berman
                                             chief legislative counsel
                                             & direrector aclu
                                             privacy technology project
 
 
    cc: john shattuck
 
 
 
 
 