	<strnlghtc602ka.ifd@netcom.com>
 date: sat, 24 apr 1993 23:15:57 gmt
 lines: 50
 
 
 >if the crooks use an innocent person's clipper phone on the tapped line
 >there's no problem. the feds don't care whose phone instrument is used, just
 >that the conversation is by the suspect on the tapped line. they get the
 >serial number, get the keys, and they are in business.
 >
 >no clipper chip to person association is ever needed.
 
 yeah, but who wants to start a pool on the first person arrested
 mistakenly and has their life turned upside-down because some law
 enforcement agency *does* make a chip::person association?
 
 i wonder if there are any plans to keep these records (e.g. encode the
 serial number into the upc scanned at k-mart along with the credit
 card info, voila.)
 
 at least your phone number tends to only locate to your house or
 whatever (i.e. to be coming from your telephone number the person
 likely is in your house etc.), plus or minus some shenanigans of
 course.
 
 but i'd hate to think of these guys getting the clipper id, recording
 the conversation, then doing a quick cross-lookup and your name comes
 up as owner of that id (mistakenly, maybe you sold the phone at a
 garage sale or the phone was stolen from your car or whatever.) they
 might only know who one side of the conversation is, for example.
 
 anyone who thinks the govt is forbidden by law to cross-correlate such
 databases loses two points. first, law enforcement agencies can of
 course do this. second, they're only forbidden from budgeting any
 money for it. the irs, for example, does do this anyhow. they just
 don't spend any money on it so it's (technically) legal i guess.
 
 instead they probably trade little favors with companies like
 mastercard (if you're the irs i'll bet you have a *lot* of
 opportunities to trade favors with major corps for their databases.)
 
 i know, an irs guy read an amazing list off to me (from his screen, i
 could hear him typing to pull up each screen) once on the phone during
 a dispute i had with them (to intimidate me, actually, not much of a
 dispute, i didn't particularly disagree, but for some reason this
 fellow wanted to play tough guy with me, i hope he's better now.)
 
 amazing stuff he had at his finger tips. be afraid.
 
 -- 
         -barry shein
 
 software tool & die    | bzs@world.std.com          | uunet!world!bzs
 purveyors to the trade | voice: 617-739-0202        | login: 617-739-wrld
 