
 steve bellovin writes a well-thought-out and nearly persuasive article about
 why the clipper (are we still calling it clipper today, or have they figured
 out a non-infringing word yet?) protocol is almost as good as one can do
 given their marching ordes.
 
 in article <1993apr24.160121.17189@ulysses.att.com> smb@research.att.com (steven bellovin) writes:
 >         i issue this invitation:  assume that you were charged with
 >implementing such a system, with complete regard for civil rights and
 >due process.  what would you do differently?  in answering this
 >question, please accept nsa's fundamental assumptions:  that both
 >strong cryptography against outsiders, and the ability to wiretap
 >*some* domestic users, is necessary.
 
 i'll accept the second assumption only for the sake of argument.  in my
 view the primary remaining flaw is that the encryption algorithm is
 secret, leading to suspicion that there is a back door.  without complete
 disclosure this suspicion cannot be dispelled, no matter how many trusted
 experts are allowed to look at it in isolation.
 
 is it possible to do this whole thing with a public algorithm?  the only
 concern i've seen with making skipjack public is that someone could build
 clipperphones without registering the keys.  assume f can really be kept
 secret as the government assumes.  then as part of the initial connection,
 a clipperphone executes a protocol with the pseudophone to demonstrate
 that they both know f.  for example, the initiating phone picks a number q
 and sends e[q; f].  the receiver sends back e[q+1; f], and the initiator
 sends back e[q+2; f] to demonstrate that her first packet wasn't just a
 random 64-bit block.  repeat in the opposite direction with another q so
 it can't be defeated by somebody building up a library of sequential
 numbers by remembering responses and using those responses as the initial
 numbers of subsequent challenges.  this way clipperphones will talk only
 to other clipperphones.  of course the pseudo company can build their own
 proprietary skipjack phone, but the presidential fact sheet implies that
 they won't get approval for it without equivalent key escrow.
 
 what's wrong with this picture?  it depends of f staying secret and on
 skipjack being resistant to cryptanalysis, but the government appears to
 believe in both of these.  even if the particular q&a i suggest has some
 flaw, i imagine there's a zero-knowledge-proof protocol that doesn't.
 
 smb says:
 >the third, and most serious issue, is whether or not clipper is a good
 >idea even if carried out strictly according to the letter of the law.
 
 agreed.  my view, and you can quote me: if it's not worth doing, it's
 not worth doing well.
 -- 
 	jim gillogly
 	hevensday, 3 thrimidge s.r. 1993, 20:48
 