
 steve-b@access.digex.com (steve brinich) writes:
 
 > > second question: why!?!? why is such a strange procedure used, and not
 > >a real rng ? this turns those s1,s2 in a kind of bottleneck for system-
 > >security.
 
 >  the only theory that makes any sense is that s1 and s2 are either the
 >same for all chips, or vary among very few possibilities, so that anyone
 >trying to break the encryption by brute force need only plow through the
 >possible serial numbers (2^30, about one billion), multiplied by the number
 >of different s1, s2 combinations.
 
 my interpretation of denning's description is that s1 and s2 are chosen
 randomly by agents of the key escrow companies at the start of each 300-
 chip programming session.  i imagine that the chips are in a carrier which
 will allow them all to be programmed fairly quickly - there would not be
 a need to transfer chips one at a time into a little pla programmer as some
 people have envisioned.
 
 my guess as to why this procedure is used is that basing the keys on the
 s1 and s2 using a specified algorithm provides an (in-principle) checkable
 way to verify that no back doors exist in the choice of the random numbers
 used to generate the keys.  since we have to trust the escrow companies
 anyway, it does not weaken the system to have the keys be generated from
 random seeds entered by the escrow agents.  and since the algorithm for
 key-generation is public (modulo skipjack secrecy) then in principle an
 agent could challenge the procedure, ask for s1 and s2 to be exposed, and
 run his own independent calculation of u1 and u2 to verify that that is
 what is actually being put onto the floppies.
 
 and yes, there are many ways in which failures to follow this scheme could
 be hard to check.  the laptop probably will not really be destroyed each
 time.  hidden cameras in the ceiling could see the s1 and s2 entered by
 the trusted escrow agents.  back doors in the chip could allow u to be
 recovered.  heck, each chip could be recorded with the same u, ignoring
 what was on the floppy.
 
 hal finney
 