
 in article <c61rdq.5v5@chinet.chi.il.us> schneier@chinet.chi.il.us (bruce schneier) writes:
 >in article <1raeir$be1@access.digex.net> steve-b@access.digex.com (steve brinich) writes:
 >>  ah, but developing cryptosystems which are specificially designed to
 >>protect the government's domestic spying capabilities takes them beyond
 >>that mandate, into the forbidden field of domestic wiretapping.
 >>
 >
 >unlike the cia, the nsa has no prohibition against domestic spying.  read
 >bamford's the puzzle palace.
 
 i did.  you're mistaken.  nsa's communications intelligence mission is
 strictly against foreign governments.  here's an excerpt from the enabling
 charter (24 oct 52, truman) that should clarify this.  the charter was
 declassified in about feb 1990 when an foia request made it public.  mind
 you, i don't know that they never collect anything they're not supposed
 to... but spying on us citizens isn't in their charter.
 
     b. the comint  mission of the national  security agency
 	(nsa) shall be to provide an effective,  unified organization
 	and control of the communications  intelligence activities of
 	the united states  conducted against foreign  governments, to
 	provide for  integrated operational  policies and  procedures
 	pertaining thereto.   as  used in  this directive,  the terms
 	"communications intelligence"  or "comint" shall be construed
 	to mean all  procedures and methods used in  the interception
 	of communications  other  than foreign  press and  propaganda
 	broadcasts  and  the  obtaining  of   information  from  such
 	communications by other  than intended recipients,  but shall
 	exclude censorship  and the  production and dissemination  of
 	finished intelligence.
 
 they're also tasked with protecting the us's communications, but i haven't
 seen the specific enabling memo on that.  i assume that's the role under
 which skipjack was developed.
 
 nsa is not in the standard-setting business, though -- that's why this
 clipper stuff came from nist, which i believe is tasked with coming up
 with standards based on their best inputs from other government agencies,
 which would include nsa.
 -- 
 	jim gillogly
 	mersday, 4 thrimidge s.r. 1993, 21:59
 