
 i received a fax of a letter from representative markey (subcommittee on 
 telecommunications and finance) to ron brown (secretary of commerce).  since 
 encryption and the clipper chip are raised in this letter, i felt it would be
 of interest.  i understand that on 29 april, mr. markey will be holding a
 hearing on the questions raised in this letter.  there may also be a follow-on
 hearing dedicated to the clipper chip, but that's not definite.
 
 i've typed in the letter, which follows.  any errors in transcription are 
 mine...
 
 ---
 glenn tenney
 tenney@netcom.com            amateur radio: aa6er
 voice: (415) 574-3420        fax: (415) 574-0546
 
 ------------------ letter of interest follows ----------------
 
 april 19, 1993
 
 the honorable ronald h. brown
 secretary
 department of commerce
 14th and pennsylvania ave., nw
 washington, dc 20236
 
 dear secretary brown:
 
    as you know, i have long been interested in the privacy 
 and security of telecommunications transmissions and data in 
 a networked environment.  recent reports concerning the 
 administration's endorsement of an electronic encryption 
 standard, based upon "clipper chip" technology, have raised a 
 number of related issues.  the international competitiveness 
 of u.s. high tech manufacturers and the software industry is 
 a key factor that the government should consider when 
 addressing issues of encryption and data security.  as the 
 nation moves forward in developing the national 
 communications and information infrastructure, security of 
 telecommunications transmissions and network data will be an 
 increasingly important factor for protecting the privacy of 
 users.
 
    the "hacker" community can compromise the integrity of 
 telecommunications transmissions and databases linked by the 
 network.  the people and businesses that use the nation's 
 telecommunications network and the personal computers linked 
 through it increasingly are demanding that information be 
 protected against unauthorized access, alteration, and theft.
 
    i am concerned that the administration's plan may mean 
 that to remain competitive internationally, u.s. companies 
 would be compelled to develop two products -- one for u.s. 
 government customers, and another for private, commercial 
 users who may want a higher encryption standard.  this may 
 inadvertently increase costs to those u.s. companies hoping 
 to serve both markets.  to assist the subcommittee's analysis 
 of this issue, please respond to the following questions:
 
 1. has the encryption algorithm or standard endorsed by the 
 administration been tested by any entity other than nsa, nist 
 or the vendor?  if so, please identify such entities and the 
 nature of testing performed.  if not, please describe any 
 plans to have the algorithm tested by outside experts and how 
 such experts will be chosen.
 
 2. under the administration's plan, what entities will be the 
 holders of the "keys" to decrypt scrambled data?  what 
 procedures or criteria will the administration utilize to 
 designate such key holders?
 
 3. does the encryption algorithm endorsed by the 
 administration contain a "trap door" or "back door," which 
 could allow an agency or entity of the federal government to 
 crack the code?
 
 4. it is clear that over time, changes in technologies used 
 for communications will require new techniques and additional 
 equipment.  how will encryption devices adapt to the rapid 
 advancement of telecommunications technology?
 
 5. what additional costs would the proposed encryption place 
 on the federal government?  what is the estimated cost to 
 consumers and businesses which opt for the federal standard 
 in their equipment?
 
 6. what is the commerce department's assessment of the 
 competitive impact of the administration's endorsement of the 
 "clipper chip" technology on u.s. exports of computer and 
 telecommunications hardware and software products?
 
    i would appreciate your response by no later than close-
 of-business, wednesday, april 28, 1993.  if you have any 
 questions, please have your staff contact colin crowell or 
 karen colannino of the subcommittee staff at (202) 226-2424.
 
 sincerely,
 
 edward j. markey
 chairman
 
 ###
 -- 
 glenn tenney
 voice: (415) 574-3420      fax: (415) 574-0546
 tenney@netcom.com          ham radio: aa6er
 