
 in article <1993apr21.204036.13723@rick.dgbt.doc.ca> 
 (jerry han) writes: 
 > guess what people?  you live in one of the few countries in the world
 > where a person can complain without getting shot at.  
 
         only guessing, but from his address i'd say that jerry, like
         me, lives in canada. unlike me, he thinks that our friends in
         the us enjoy the same freedom that we do, and he has not seen
         the slow but steady erosion to the south of us.
 
         we have the benefit of relatively slow politicians and
         ineffective law enforcement. our rednecks tend to be the
         objects of derision rather than elected officials. it's
         everything le can do to keep up with the real criminals. any
         time they actually go after somebody just because they don't
         like his or her attitude, it's national news (it also often
         blows up in their faces: eg. the well-intentioned but flawed
         zundel case, which resulted in a scolding from the supreme
         court, not only to le for prosecuting the case but to
         parliament for passing the law it was prosecuted under).
 
         our friends south of the border don't have as easy a time of
         it. among other things they have as many le agencies as we
         have agencies, and some of them have teeth. they also have the
         war on drugs which gives law-enforcement agencies exceptional
         powers to ignore individuals' rights (the dea has more
         arbitrary power than that given to canadian agencies under the
         war measures act). we have the rcmp and csis who can't stop
         fighting each other long enough to do any really effective
         suppression of private citizens' rights. not only that, our
         police commissions have teeth, as i learned when i had to fend
         off a bent cop.
 
         it may be ironic that the nation founded on life, liberty and
         the pursuit of happiness is getting government-imposed order,
         while the nation founded on peace, order and good government
         is getting in-your-face liberty.
 
         that's not to say our time won't come. it looks like chretien
         is going to run on a law-and-order platform. be afraid.
 
         cheers,
                 marc
 
 ---
  marc thibault                             | marc@tanda.isis.org
  automation architect                      | cis:71441,2226
  r.r.1, oxford mills, ontario, canada      | nc freenet: aa185
 
 -----begin pgp public key block-----
 mqbnaiqxytkaaaecalfehyp0yc80s1scfvjspj5escao+hihtnefrrn+vuecsavh
 aauwpiugyv2n8n+lftpnnlc42ms+c8pjupykvi8abrg0i01hcmmgvghpymf1bhqg
 pg1hcmnadgfuzgeuaxnpcy5vcmc+
 =hlnv
 -----end pgp public key block-----
 
 