
 in article <wcs.93apr26141950@rainier.att.com> wcs@anchor.ho.att.com (bill stewart +1-908-949-0705) writes:
 
 >   the serial number will be in a 64 bit block, with a 34 bit filler.  doesn't
 >   take a lot to check to see if that is correct.
 >
 >depends on whether the filler is a constant (makes checking easy,
 >but susceptible to replay), or variable (e.g. timer, counter, random),
 >which makes replay harder and can also make it easier for the
 >inquisitors to know if they've missed messages, or gotten them out of
 >sequence, or other interesting things that sort of person might care about.
 
 i'd use a secret (nope, obscure) cryptographic encoding to expand the 
 30 bit serial number to a 64 bit block. the redundancy hereby introduced 
 can be used to detect tampered clipper signals where some public enemy 
 replaced the l.e. block by random data. 
 
 and of course the l.e. block would be used to initialise the encryption 
 of the user data so that at the receiving end the correct l.e. block must 
 be processed in order to have any chance of getting the plaintext back. 
 
 for those of you who might want to mangle the l.e. block (e.g. by xor-ing 
 a constant pattern) on the transmission line and restore it before feeding 
 it into the receiving crippler chip i would add further encrypted copies 
 of this block (perhaps created by repeated application of the encryption 
 algorithm or so) at regular intervals during the transmission. if the 
 receiving chip detects a mismatch it must assume that the line is bad and 
 it will cease to work; in your own interest you are protected from getting 
 faulty plaintext, you know -- it's just like a checksum for your own 
 safety ;-(. 
 
 the `monitoring agencies' won't have the famous black box which is needed 
 for actual decryption and will be kept by the fbi; but nothing prevents 
 them from using special boxes which will do the redundancy check for the 
 serial number block and consistency checks on the embedded l.e. blocks 
 within the transmission. these boxes will turn a red light on as soon as 
 they detect a bitstream that violates the correct protocol.
 
 so don't anyone think that you can use the chip and fool l.e. about the 
 tapping key -- i bet the developpers have provided much better checks 
 than those suggested above. of course it's absolutely crucial that the 
 algorithms (and protocols) remain secret. personally i doubt they will.
 
 --
 detlef lannert       dc3ek       e-mail: tsos@rz.uni-duesseldorf.de
 pgp 2.2 key via server or finger lannert@clio.rz.uni-duesseldorf.de
 "i am psmith." - "oh, you're smith, are you?" - "with a preliminary
 p. which, however, is not sounded."                   p.g.wodehouse
 