
 in article <19930426.113215.145@almaden.ibm.com>, jbs@watson.ibm.com writes:
 |>          is it realistic for the government to try to keep the details
 |> of the encrytion algorithm secret if it intends to use evidence from...
 |>                           james b. shearer
 
 i do not think they can use the eavesdropping as evidence at all. however,
 using the info they gather while listening, they can go searching the right
 place and find good, strong evidence, which they can use in court. 
 
 question : currently, it is easy to wire-tap, from the technical point of
 view, at least. anybody using the appropriate radio receiver can listen
 to communications between a car-telephone and the ground station. the police
 also, obviously. the clipper chip will make it much more difficult for the
 non-authorized person to eavesdrop (note that i do not write << impossible>> ).
 the privacy will thus improve from the current situation. poeple who really
 have something to hide already do not use the phone to speak of these things.
 if an illegal operation is really worth, one can afford having critical data
 carried by a person rather than sending it electronically. 
 the clipper chip will not change this. 
 
 the problem is more politic. foreign countries will never accept the clipper
 chip is the access to the escrow cannot be directly granted to their own
 police following their own law, not the us law. i.e. each country will have
 its own escrow. how then will it be possible to monitor the international
 traffic? or, will encrypted international traffic be possible ? or will there
 be an international escrow, some kind of u.n. thing ?
 
 forbidding crypted communication is impractical: how is it possible to spot
 a crypted communication in the thousands of megabytes of data which circulate
 on the various existing networks. what about private networks ? and this will
 be more and more impossible as the volume of electronic traffic will increrase
 in the next years.
 
 i think that the clipper chip can only be an interesting device to limit the
 risk of , for instance, one's girlfriend's husband listening to his wife's
 communications. it will bring no more as regards to security. is it worth ?
 i think so if its cost is limited, i think that many privacy invasions are done
 not only by official services, but also by private entities. the clipper can
 help reducing these. provided we do not hope too much of it, it is not a real
 danger and it can be helpful.
 
 ph. hoogvorst
 