
    i can think of a couple of ways of guaranteeing authenticity in a one-time
 pad encrytped scheme, though i'm not sure how to prove that what kind of
 authenicity they provide.
  
    an obvious first-attempt might be to prepend a truly random (unpredictable
 for eve) block to the message, and then calculate a crc which included the
 random starting block and all of the message.  this could be encrypted after
 the message.  the problem is, i'm not sure it's impossible to come up with
 a message that will hash to the same crc regardless of the random starting
 block.  (it intuitively seems like it ought to be hard, but i'm not *that*
 sure....)  clearly, a crypto-strength hash like md5 or the sha would be
 stronger, but again, i'm not sure i'm comfortable claiming that it's
 unbreakable.
  
    a scheme to use up some of the pad bits to decide how many bits of 0's
 to include in the plaintext stream before going on wouldn't be too bad,
 either.  at the cost of increasing the speed with which you use up your
 pad, this could be used to give you arbitrarily low probability that your
 opponent could spoof a valid-looking message, since any deciphered plaintext
 in a spot that should be carrying 0's will show that something funny's going
 on.
  
    if, for each message bit m_i, we used up one random bit, r_i, to decide
 whether to insert a 0 into the plaintext stream, we'd get a total pad use
 of 2.5 times the message length.  (we'd expand the message size by about
 half.)  each 0 that should appear in the plaintext stream that doesn't is a
 guess for our would-be spoofer.  at each bit, she has to guess.  i'm trying
 to see how to quantify her chances of making it all the way through the
 spoofed message, but it gets a little complicated, because she can get un-
 synched, and still happen to have a 0 in that place in the spoofed message.
  
    now, i can see a simple way of doing this that's got to be as secure
 as a one-time pad, at a cost of using 4 times the message length in pad bits.
  
    for each message bit, m_i, use one random bit, r_i, and xor them together
 to get x_i.  now, encrypt the three bits with the one-time pad.  the enemy
 has no way of guessing what r_i is, so he/she can't guess what x_i is, either.
 any change she makes in the ciphertext stream will have to involve a guess
 of what r_i was.  is there any way to do this without using so many pad bits?
  
    spoofing the message is equivalent to correctly guessing as many random
 bits as there are bits in the message.  clearly, this makes spoofing messages
 just as hard if you know the whole message text as if you know none of it.
 in fact, it looks to me like this makes it just as hard to generate a spoofed
 message with the ciphertext as without it, but i'm not entirely sure about
 that.
  
    is there an easier way of doing this that's provably as secure as the
 one-time pad?
  
    --john kelsey
 