ALEX Salmond has been awarded an honorary degree by Glasgow University.
The University conferred an honorary degree of doctor of the university on the former SNP leader and First Minister in recognition of his contributions to public life. 
Mr Salmond was awarded the degree during a ceremony at Bute Hall, and joined previous recipients such as the late Donald Dewar, Sir Menzies Campbell and Charles Kennedy.
Glasgow University principal and vice-chancellor Professor Anton Muscatelli said that awarding Mr Salmond the degree carried on a long tradition at the institution of recognising ‘major contributions to public life from across the political spectrum.’
Prof Muscatelli added: “All political observers recognise that Alex Salmond is a dominant figure in Scottish politics. In a parliamentary career that spans almost three decades, he was twice leader of the SNP, and the longest serving First Minister of Scotland from 2007-2014.
“Higher education was a key part of his programme for government and in spite of challenging economic circumstances his government supported the global ambition of Scotland’s universities whilst encouraging access from all who had talent and ambition to learn.
“Mr Salmond led Scotland during what was arguably the most important period of constitutional debate in the last 300 years, leading to the 2014 Independence Referendum. 
“He stood down as First Minister and SNP leader in the aftermath of the Referendum, but in seeking to return to Westminster at the forthcoming General Election he continues to play an important role in British politics.
Mr Salmond added: “I’m absolutely delighted to receive this honour from the University of Glasgow - one of Scotland’s most distinguished institutions, which has truly shaped the world we live in throughout its history.
“And to this day, Glasgow remains at the vanguard in terms of teaching excellence and research.
“I am extremely proud of what the SNP in government has achieved for Scottish education - principally the abolition of tuition fees, which has restored a long tradition of education based on the ability to learn, not the ability to pay.”
The former SNP leader is currently campaigning to be elected MP in the Gordon constituency. 
