An evil rapist is facing a long stretch behind bars after he was convicted of a string of horrific sex attacks.
Calan Morrison, 29, was already a convicted sex offender when he committed his latest crimes at houses in Elderslie and elsewhere.
After one of the painful sex attacks, callous Morrison told his sobbing victim: “See, you did enjoy it.”
Morrison, known as Teddy, was convicted of raping a woman at a house in the Fernhill area of Glasgow and at Galston, in Ayrshire, as well as indecently assaulting another victim at houses in Clydebank and Elderslie.
He was also found guilty of abducting two women, who were left locked in a flat without food, hot water or heating.
Morrison, who has five children by five different partners, was cleared of further charges of rape and assault by a jury.
One woman told the trial at the High Court in Edinburgh how Morrison used to grab her by her ponytail and swing her about.
Another victim said she was repeatedly locked in a flat by him.
She told the court: “I could never take the dog out for a walk. The dog used to defecate in the house.
“There was electricity but there was no heating. It was really cold.
“I had asked him when he was going out if he would post the keys back through the letterbox, so that I could go out, take the dog out and just not be trapped in the house. He said he couldn’t do that.
“There was one occasion he went away for five days and I started to panic.”
The woman said she was left in the house with just a bag of rice to eat.
She added: “I made up the rice and gave the dog some and some for me.”
One woman who was raped by Morrison last year told how she had made it clear she did not want to have sex with him.
She added: “I said ‘no’ about 100 times. I don’t see how that could be consensual.”
The court was told Morrison ripped open the woman’s dress, took off her tights and pants and put his hand over her mouth during the sex attack.
Former college student Morrison, who had denied the offences, accused women in the case of lying but is now set to be handed a lengthy jail sentence.
Defence counsel, Ian Duguid QC, said: “Standing those convictions, he will require to serve a considerable period in custody.”
Morrison, who has a previous conviction for sex with an underage girl, has never been jailed before.
Sentence was deferred until next month so that background reports can be prepared.
Morrison was remanded in custody and placed on the Sex Offenders’ Register.
