IT started as an idea for a road trip in honour of a brother and best pal who died of cancer.
Now five friends have completed a football odyssey, visiting all 42 of the country’s senior clubs in less than 42 hours and raising nearly &pound;20,000.
They won support from TV queen Lorraine Kelly and ex-world snooker champion John Higgins and were backed by football stars Cammy Bell and John Robertson.
 Kevin and Ciaran Aitken’s brother John lost his battle with non-Hodgkin lymphoma last June. 
They were joined, in a car supplied by Arnold Clark, by Annan-based Gordon Moffat, Gary &shy;McMenamin and Joe Cranston on the fundraiser in memory of John.
 

After crossing the finish line at John’s beloved Annan Athletic on Friday night, Kevin, 32, said: “That was the perfect tribute to my brother – 957 miles and 39-and-a-half hours of laughs, tears, football and a massive amount of money raised.
“The idea was gathering momentum all the time but as soon as we appeared in  this month the number of people who got in touch was ridiculous.
“Even when we set off from &shy;Stranraer’s Stair Park on Thursday morning, we didn’t quite imagine the generosity we would encounter.
 “ John Higgins was at Celtic Park and it was brilliant to spend a bit of time there with a world champion. 
 “ Rangers goalie Cammy Bell was waiting for us at Ibrox. He is an Annan lad and it was a lovely gesture for him to hand over &pound;1000. 
 

 “ John Robertson met us at Hearts and he had even organised eight giant pizzas for us which, believe me, didn’t last long in the back of that wee car. At Dundee United we were met by Lorraine Kelly and she couldn’t have been kinder. 
“Later she sent a text telling us to keep going. Little things like that were so inspiring.”
John had spent most his adult life working tirelessly to help others and raise cash for charity despite battling the aggressive form of cancer himself.
Kevin said: “Had it been any of his friends who had passed away, John would have been at the forefront of something like this.
“He was such a big-hearted guy who gave up his time for his friends and family and his death hit us all so hard. To raise almost &pound;20,000 so far is a fitting tribute.
 

“He’d have loved the journey and the laughs we had – even the wee fallouts. There was a flood of tears when we crossed the finish line at Galabank in Annan on Friday night.
“John loved Annan Athletic and was engaged to &shy;chairman Henry McClelland’s daughter Lisa when he passed away.
“We were at the Annan game against East Fife on Saturday and we won with a goal in the last minute. Henry and I looked at each other and thought the same thing, ‘That was for John.’”
The boys have raised &pound;18,000 – but cash is still arriving as they look to hit the &pound;20,000 mark.
The money will go to the John Maurice Aitken Trust, which was set up by John’s family to help causes such as health, education, employment and of course sport.
Try our quick sport quiz below:

