Don the sheep dog caused major tailbacks today after driving on to one of Scotland’s busiest motorways during rush hour.
The Collie leaned on the controls of the farm vehicle as shepherd Tom Hamilton tended to his flock - sending it speeding across fields.
The 4x4 motored down a hill, before crashing through a fence and onto the northbound carriageway of the busy M74.

Cars were brought to a halt as the daredevil Collie careered over three lanes of motorway.
Eventually Don and the Gator four wheel drive vehicle came to rest on the central reservation near Abington, South Lanarkshire.
And miraculously, Don was none the worse for his motorway adventure.
 

Owner Tom, 77, said he was relieved no one was injured during the incident, and that four-and-a-half year old Don was no worse for wear following his adventure.
The drama began near junction 13 at 8.15am while Tom, who has been a farmer all his life, was tending to lambs in a field on his 1,000 acre Kirkton Farm.
Tom was attempting to get hold of a lamb which looked like it was trying to escape.
He had left Don in the cab of the mini Gator while checking on his livestock, and the next thing he knew it was careering down the hill towards the motorway.
Tom said: “I tried to run after the tractor, but it was too fast and I fell over.
“I got the fright of my life when I saw it heading towards the motorway.”
 

The 4x4 crossed the motorway - the main route into central Scotland from the south - before finally coming to rest at the reservation.
By chance a local happened to be passing at the time, and pulled over to stop the oncoming traffic.
Tom then removed the vehicle from the carriageway, but by this time Don was no where to be seen.
He added: “The whole thing was over in a matter of minutes. In the panic I didn’t realise Don must have jumped out of the tractor and disappeared.
“After I moved it, there was no sign of Don, but my son went out and found him a few minutes later.
“To be honest, I think he just wants to get back to work. It’ll be the last time I leave him in the cab on his own though.”
Large queues of traffic built up as police attempted to clear the busy route. After 30 minutes traffic began moving normally.
Motorists were alerted to the incident by a tweet from Traffic Scotland.
 
#M74 (N) J13-RTC due to dog taking control of tractor... nope, not joking. Farmer&amp;police at scene,vehicle in central res. #maycausetailbacks

The instant message had people asking ‘Are ewe joking’ and checking to make sure it wasn’t April 1 again.
Tom thinks Don may have leant on the hand brake of the tractor after he possibly didn’t engage it properly, allowing it to build up speed as it rolled down the hill.
There are skid marks visible from the top of the field the tractor was in, stretching for around 120m until it smashed through the wooden fence and careered down a steep embankment.
Tom, who has owned Kirkton Farm for 52 years, also revealed he went to his local GP for a check-up and was told he was fine, but was to ‘take it easy’.
 

But within hours of the incident he was back out in his fields with trusty companion Don.
He added: “Don is a great dog. He has worked for me since he was about two, and is great with the animals and kids as well - he has a really good nature.
“He didn’t even bark during the incident, despite being in an out-of-control vehicle.
“It is lambing season just now, so there is plenty of work for us to be getting on with.”
A Traffic Scotland spokesman said: “The dog accidentally leaned on the controls and the vehicle made its way out of the field and onto the M74.”
A spokeswoman for Police Scotland added: “At around 8.15am a farm vehicle crashed through a fence in a field and made its way onto the M74 at junction 13.
“Nobody is believed to have been injured.”
