
 los angeles times, saturday, may 8, 1993.  page a11.
 
 figure in adl spy case arrested at s.f. airport
 
     espionage: former police officer is taken into custody upon
     arriving from philippines, where he had fled after fbi
     interrogation.
 
 by jenifer warren, times staff writer
 
 san francisco -- a former san francisco police officer who fled to the
 philippines amid accusations that he funneled confidential law
 enforcement information to an investigator for the anti-defamation
 league was arrested at the airport here on 11 felony charges, police
 said friday.
 
 thomas j. gerard who abruptly left the united states in october after
 the fbi questioned him about his activities, was apprehended thursday
 night after a source in the philippines told investigators that gerard
 was returning home.
 
 gerard, 50, was booked into san francisco county jail early friday
 morning on eight counts of theft of government documents and one count
 each of computer theft, burglary and conspiracy.
 
 if convicted on all charges, gerard could face 16 years in prison and
 $40,000 in fines.  bail was initially set at $250,000 after police
 argued that he was a flight risk, but it was later reduced to $20,000. 
 a friend of gerard was trying to post bail late friday afternoon, a
 sheriff's spokeswoman said.
 
 gerard returned to the united because he missed his wife and child,
 with whom he lived on a houseboat in sausalito, and "wanted to have
 his day in court," said police capt. john willett, his former boss and
 one of two arresting officers.
 
 gerard, an undercover agent for the central intelligence agency from
 1982 to 1985, also feared that the cia was out to kill him, willett
 said.  in an interview with the times last month, gerard threatened to
 disclose illegal cia support of death squads in central america if he
 was indicted and tried on the san francisco spying charges.
 
 gerard is a central figure in a scandal over an intelligence network
 operated by the anti-defamation league, a prominent jewish civil
 rights organization.  investigators allege that gerard illegally gave
 criminal histories to roy bullock, a san francisco art dealer who said
 he has been an undercover adl intelligence operative for 40 years.
 
 investigators said they found confidential police files in bullock's
 home computer -- which contained entries on 10,000 people and 950
 groups -- and in boxes in his apartment.  files have also been seized
 under search warrants from adl offices in san francisco and los
 angeles but authorities have not disclosed their contents.
 
 gerard could not be reached for comment friday, and his attorney,
 james lassart, did not return telephone calls seeking comment.  in the
 interview with the times last month, however, gerard acknowledged
 snooping and sharing some information with bullock, but denied any
 criminal wrongdoing.
 
 bullock and gerard also are under investigation for selling
 intelligence to south africa.
 
 adl officials have described bullock as a $550-a-week independent
 contractor and have vigorously denied knowledge of any illegal
 activity.  on friday, adl lawyer jerrold ladar said gerard's arrest
 "has nothing to do with adl.  other than that, we have no comment on
 the case."
 
 arab-american groups -- which were a main target of the spying,
 according to police -- applauded the arrest and pressed authorities to
 pursue the investigation.
 
 "we urge investigators to carry this case forward and to publicly
 disclose the full extent of adl and law enforcement involvement," said
 james zogby, head of the arab american institute in washington.
 
 police, meanwhile, characterized gerard's arrest -- the first in the
 inquiry into the spying scandal -- as an unexpected breakthrough.  a
 former police colleague of gerard, inspector fred mollat, visited
 gerard several weeks ago and urged him to return home.
 
 "i knew he wouldn't want to live on an island on the lam forever, but
 we didn't think it would happen this quickly," capt. willett said. 
 "this development really speeds up our timetable on the case."
 
 during his 25-year career on the police force, gerard was a highly
 regarded officer known for his work in the department's intelligence
 division.  his last assignment was on the gang task force.
 
 after fbi agents questioned gerard last fall, he took early retirement
 and fled to the remote jungle island of palawan, 300 miles south of
 manila.
 
 gerard was arrested at 8:40 p.m. as he stepped from his philippines
 airlines flight. he was traveling alone and looked tanned but haggard
 after his six-month hiatus, police said.
 
 "he was surprised when he saw us standing there, and got a shocked
 look on his face," willett said.  "then he said, 'hello, i'm back.'"
  
 --
 yigal arens
 usc/isi                                                tv made me do it!
 arens@isi.edu
 