PEACE protesters claimed “100 per cent success” after forcing Scotland’s nuclear submarine base to shut down yesterday.
MoD bosses told staff to stay at home for the day after crowds blockaded Faslane on the Clyde.
Protest organisers believe the political tide has finally turned, spelling the end of Britain’s Trident nuclear deterrent.
 The day saw 34 arrests – mostly for obstructing roads into the base – but the protest was not marked by the same level of aggression seen in previous demos. 
Around 300 peace protesters who travelled to the base were possibly outnumbered by police, most of whom kept a low profile in vans parked around Faslane.
Many of the protesters stayed after 2pm when Faslane was hit by torrential rain and a sharp temperature drop.
Others boarded minibuses back to Glasgow after declaring the mission a success. Scrap Trident Coalition’s Brian Larkin said: “This is the first realistic opportunity in 50 years to actually get nuclear weapons out of the UK.
“The referendum has shown there is a massive shift in politics happening right now.
“Nicola Sturgeon has made her position on Trident crystal clear. She says the only way the SNP will deal with Labour at Westminster is if they agree not to replace Trident.
“The SNP have real power right now and they reflect the views of most Scottish people. With the SNP, Plaid Cymru, the Greens and 100 or so Labour rebels there could be a vote that would see the end of Trident.
“The demonstration today has got the right message out. It has been peaceful but very successful.”

The Bairns Not Bombs demo brought supporters from all over Europe to the base from 7am, blockading the main gates.
Campaigners were trained at camps in Glasgow, Edinburgh and Stirling to work in groups of six to 12 and not to get arrested for violence or verbal abuse.
Protesters were taught “lock-on” tactics, which make it hard for police to quickly remove them from sensitive areas. Many of those arrested were covered in red paint, symbolising a “People’s Red Line” against Trident.
Groups of protesters chained themselves together outside the gates ahead of the shift change at the base. Police used cutting equipment to separate them and by the time the protest officially ended at 3pm, more than 30 people had been arrested and loaded into vans.
 

Supporters of the protest include Nobel laureate Peter Higgs, comic Frankie Boyle and Mercury prizewinning band Young Fathers.
Scottish Green Party co-convener Patrick Harvie joined those at the base’s north gate. He said: “The tide is definitely turning against Trident. Today proves that Scots have a desire to see real democracy in action.
“I can feel real optimism in people that we are on the brink of finally dismantling the nuclear weapons that Scotland has been stuck with.
“Trident is impossible to justify on any grounds. It costs an insane amount of money and is of no use in dealing with the world’s security issues. It needs to go.”
Thousands attended a march and rally in Glasgow this month to call on Westminster to abandon plans to replace Trident.
But last week, Defence Secretary Michael Fallon confirmed that a Conservative government would go ahead with the construction of four new Trident nuclear missile submarines to replace the existing fleet of ageing Vanguard-class boats.
 

He warned that the deterrent would be put at risk by the prospect of Labour leader Ed Miliband entering into a pact with the anti-Trident SNP in the event of a hung parliament after May 7.
Miliband has pledged to support Trident but knows Sturgeon has declared that halting the renewal programme is her “absolute priority” if her party end up holding the balance of power.
A Police Scotland spokesman said there had been 34 arrests yesterday, with two of those carried out by MoD Police.
Those arrested were put in vans before being taken to nearby police stations to be processed.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

