 

SCOTLAND should abandon the war on drugs, according to the author of a controversial book.
Johann Hari believes the old approach of prohibition has failed and says decriminalising drugs is the only answer.
Hari spent three years on a 30,000-mile journey to write Chasing the Scream.
The book attempts to answer basic questions about drugs and tackling addiction.
Hari, 36, believes support for the current war on drugs policy is collapsing.
He said: “I imagine Scotland doing what they did in Portugal where they decriminalised drugs.
&quot;You can imagine the main parties getting a scientific panel to go away and figure it out and take it out of politics. I think Scotland could be a testing ground for much more progressive policies.
“There are several ways the drug debate in Scotland could be more advanced.”
He said his latest contribution to the debate does not mark a return from exile.
The award-winning journalist was suspended from his job as a columnist for The Independent over accusations he used other writers’ material without crediting them.
 

He was also accused of altering his Wikipedia entry and attacking others by using a pseudonym.
He left to go to the US to undergo retraining but never returned to the paper.
Instead, he wrote Chasing the Scream which has been lauded by critics including Elton John, Stephen Fry and Naomi Klein.
Speaking about his past errors, he said: “I made a serious error of judgement and it was a really foolish and unpleasant thing to do.
&quot;When you screw up you should pay a price and go away and work diligently and I did.&quot;
hari, who graduated with a double first from Cambridge University, disagrees that the book is a campaign tool and instead believes it simply tells the stories of people whose lives had been changed by the war on drugs.
The stories range from a transexual drug dealer in Brooklyn searching for her mother to a startling revelation about legendary singer Billie Holiday.
The book starts with a journey on a Greyhound bus to Penn State University to find out about former Bureau of Narcotics chief Harry Anslinger, who he credits with doing “more than any other individual to create the drug world we now live in&quot;.
 

He contends that Anslinger's policies played a large part in Holiday’s death.
Hari himself had an early exposure to drugs. One of his first memories is of trying to wake “a relative in a drugged slump” and not being able to.
He himself used Provigil - a narcolepsy drug - which allowed him to write uninterrupted without rest. He is not narcoleptic – a condition that causes people to suddenly fall asleep.
Hari said ending the current war will help to save thousands of lives.
He explains: “There are enormous numbers of people who are dying unnecessarily because of bad drug policies. When you ban drugs, they don’t disappear.
&quot;They transfer from doctors to armed criminal gangs. Banning them creates a whole wave of violence that wouldn’t exist.
“We need a broad menu of options to treat drug addiction. At the moment there are two things on the menu, Narcotics Anonymous or methadone. We have to have loads of things on the menu.”
Born in Glasgow, Hari grew up in London but spent summers and school holidays in Perth with his grandmother Amy McRae.
Amy also helped to raise Hari and spent a lot of time in London.
He said: “My mum grew up in Perth and later lived in Glasgow. Years ago I was in New York to cover the Republican National Convention and I referred to myself as an Englishman in New York.
“She rang and said ‘no son of mine is an Englishman’.
 

“My grandmother was incredible. She had a really hard life. Her husband worked on the docks and he died young and she had to bring up three kids on her own.
&quot;She scrubbed toilets. She was amazing. When she was in her 80s my sister had a baby. My gran was going to post her some money and she was crossing the road and was hit by a car in Perth.
&quot;When the ambulance arrived the first thing she said to the paramedic was ‘can you put this in the post box’. My sister got this blood-stained money in the post.
&quot;She was always thinking about other people. Within months she was walking again. She was 91 when she died. She was also militantly Scottish.”
Hari’s father was a bus driver while his mother worked in a domestic violence shelter.
The writer said both his mother and grandmother were ‘always on the side of the underdog’.
He added: “For my grandmother, it seemed miraculous that I got into Cambridge. A lot of my politics come from my gran and my mum.”
Johann said his book is an attempt to ‘rehumanise people’.
He added: “I hope the overall effect is you want to change the way these people are treated. I hope anyone who likes books that are exciting and interesting will also read it.
Audio of the quotes can be listened to along with the book on www.chasingthescream.com
