ANDY Murray and his new wife have hailed their wedding “the best weekend of our lives”.
The Dunblane tennis ace and the new Mrs Murray left the touching message at Cromlix House Hotel, where they held their wedding reception on Saturday night.
Writing in the guest book, the happy couple thanked staff for their hard work around the top-secret event.
Family and friends said the wedding, which attracted more than 3000 well-wishers on to the streets of Murray’s hometown, was “the best ever”.
The newlyweds signed the book “Andy &amp; Kimberly Murray”.
Kim, who has been universally praised for her stunning dress, added: “Thank you to Graeme and every single one of you at Cromlix who worked so hard to make this weekend the best of our lives – a special place filled with very special people! X”
The couple were among a handful of people who wrote in the public guestbook before departing on Sunday, ahead of the hotel reopening to the public today.
Kim’s parents Leonore and Nigel Sears said their weekend was “magical” and praised staff at the secluded luxury hotel Murray bought in 2013 for &pound;1.8million.

They wrote: “Thank you everyone at Cromlix for making it such a magical few days. You all make Cromlix such a special place where subtle magic happens xx”
Kim’s younger brother Scott also enjoyed the festivities, writing: “Hands down best wedding ever. Thanks for everything.”
On Andy’s side, maternal gran and grandad Shirley and Roy Erskine wrote: “What a fantastic end to a wonderful day. Thank you all, staff at Cromlix for this finale.”
Carlos Mier, one of Murray’s three best men along with Ross Hutchins and Murray’s older brother Jamie, revealed the wedding had brought out his romantic side – and left him longing to find love so he can return for a wedding of his own.
He wrote: “Most adorable staff in the history of hotels. Can’t wait to finally meet someone, fall in love and have my wedding here.”
Matt Gentry, who looks after Murray’s PR, and Danni Comber, wrote: “Amazing wedding, hotel was superb + staff/service = unreal = coming back.”

Other guests also revealed how much they had enjoyed Scotland’s wedding of the year.
Simona Businaro and Joel Defres, said: “Thank you both for the best wedding and weekend EVER!! You guys are awesome. I didn’t want to go back to real life xoxox”.
And Harriet Haswell and Elliot James added: “Most incredible wedding EVER! Thank you for the best weekend. Enjoy married life.”
It was also revealed Murray’s mother Judy handed out bouquets of flowers that had decorated dinner tables at Cromlix House, around Dunblane.
Gemma Greer, manager at the Dunblane Centre, said: “Judy came in and said she was bringing round some of the flowers to the community.
“She also went to the old people’s home. They are centrepieces from the tables at Cromlix and they are beautiful.
“Judy said it had been a really good day and they had all really enjoyed it. She said the rain had thankfully kept off at all the important times, so that was good.”
Meanwhile, Dunblane was showing the last remaining signs of their celebrations.
Children at the Dunblane community centre displayed colourful life-size pictures of Andy and Kim that they had made, showing the couple in their wedding costumes.
And the special Murray sausages created at Bennett’s butcher in the High Street have been made in to “Andy’s Chilli Bridies”.

 
Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz:

