A BODY found on an industrial site is believed to be a man who has been missing for almost three years.
David Baird, 54, suffered from poor health and was last seen by a neighbour in Blantyre, Lanarkshire in June 2012 .
His whereabouts remained a mystery until workmen digging at site in Dale Avenue, Cambuslang, discovered human remains yesterday.
The grim find was made near the old Hoover factory but forensic experts have yet to establish the cause of death.
A force spokeswoman said: “Following forensic examination Police Scotland can confirm the body is male and has been in situ for a considerable time.
“Enquiries continue to establish the identity of the man and circumstances surrounding his death.
“The death is currently being treated as unexplained.
“Further forensic tests have still to be carried out to establish the identity of the man, however following initial enquiries police believe the body to be that of 54 year old David Baird, missing from Blantyre since June 2012.
“Police are currently liaising with Mr Baird’s family.”
 

Mr Baird, of Teviot Way, Blantyre was last seen in Hamilton Road heading to Cambuslang at around 5.45pm on June 16, 2012.
A phone signal from his mobile was picked up in the town the following day but the trail then went cold.
The force helicopter was used during the search and a media appeal was issued but no trace of Mr Baird was ever found.
 Speaking at the time of his disappearance Inspector Andrew Bain said: “Mr Baird is quite well known in the area and frequents local licensed premises in Hamilton, Blantyre and Kirkmuirhill near Lanark.  “A signal from his phone was received on Sunday, June 17, in the Cambuslang area but nothing since then. 
“He suffers from poor health and can be unsteady on his feet so when out and about tends to use local taxis.
“It is not like him to be away for this length of time and due to this and his health, both we and his sister, are very concerned for his safety and well-being.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

