PIPER Alpha survivor Ed Punchard fled 10,000 miles to put the horrors of the world’s worst offshore disaster behind him – and ended up finding love.
Ed was a diver working on the ill-fated North Sea oil rig torn apart by a series of explosions on July 6, 1988.
The 58-year-old moved Down Under in the wake of the tragedy. And he has now tied the knot with sweetheart Donna Gandini in a small ceremony in York, Western Australia.
The happy couple were joined by 80 guests at the wedding, including Ed’s daughter Suzie from his first marriage.
Suzie – who now lives in Australia and works with her dad’s production company – was a new-born when the Piper Alpha tragedy happened.
On the 25th anniversary two years ago, Ed told the Record how thinking about his baby daughter kept him alive that fateful night.
He reckoned the disaster that claimed 167 lives cost him his first marriage.
But he is now looking forward to the future with Donna.
 

Ed said: “She’s an Australian who I met in a lovely wine bar in Fremantle where I live.
“She’d been recently divorced. It was pretty much on the first week when she’d decided she was going to go out and start meeting people again. That was nearly four years ago. We were engaged within a few months.”
 
Ed went on: “It really was love at first sight and ever since we met we feel as if we have been floating in a series of 50s and 60s romantic movies. We feel like Grace Kelly and Carey Grant in the south of France and have Nat King Cole singing Nature Boy softly behind us all the time.”
Donna told how she and Ed often exchange a line from the movie Moulin Rouge.
She said: “The greatest thing you’ll ever learn is just to love and be loved in return”
In real life, Ed was a hero of Piper Alpha. He was one of the first men to escape the inferno and after being picked up by the Silver Pit standby vessel he worked tirelessly to save others.
He wrote a book about his experience and followed it up with an award-winning film, Paying For The Piper.
 

Speaking from Fremantle on the 25th anniversary, Ed said: “This was the place I ran to, to heal myself, but my wounds have never healed.
“Even though I have watched footage of the night 100 times, I still get goose bumps. I get a cold shiver that goes through my body every time I see it.
“There were helicopters everywhere, explosions, noise, fire, an incredible smell of smoke all the time. It was like being in the middle of a battle. When I came back, I was changed forever – I was one of only 62 survivors.”
Ed worked as a diver in the North Sea for a decade.
 
He said: “Diving was my life but Piper Alpha changed all that.
“ One hundred and sixty seven people were killed, families left in tatters and yet the oil company Occidental were never prosecuted.”
A key witness at the Cullen Inquiry, Ed said: “Piper Alpha was no accident, it was a disaster waiting to happen. In the boom of the 70s and early 80s, Piper was the world’s most productive offshore platform.
“But the competitive ruthlessness of the oil industry bred a working culture, which meant that nothing should stand in the way of pumping oil and gas.
“Unsafe working practices had turned the rig into a petro-chemical timebomb – and the clock was ticking.”
 

A few hours before the explosion, work on a valve connected to a gas condensate pump had been suspended.
It had been removed but the night-shift control room staff didn’t know. When they were later forced to turn it on, highly-volatile gas condensate escaped and ignited, triggering a series of explosions.
 
As the blazing platform creaked, Ed threw a rope down 70ft and led some colleagues down to the sea.
For what seemed like hours, he struggled to help the Silver Pit and her crew pluck men from the sea. Exhausted, Ed was eventually transferred to a hospital ship before being flown to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.
Two years ago, he returned to Aberdeen for a conference and was reunited with retired judge Lord Cullen, who led the inquiry into the disaster.

Try our quick news quiz below:

