Spring, we’re told, has finally sprung.
The UK economy is in a better state than ever, says the Chancellor of the Exchequer, GDP is on the up and there is a new optimism in the air for business.
Meanwhile, graduates are flowing out of universities in search of employment and companies of every size are examining their workforce needs and how they can best attract the highest calibre of talent.
The recruitment agencies are building up their databases and trying to ensure they have the kind of people available that employers want, while legal and accountancy companies are eager to offer their advice and guidance.
Worldwide employment agency Hays recently issued its UK Salary and Recruiting Trends Guide 2015. There are some significant revelations.
The guide reveals 86 per cent of employers in Scotland expect to encounter a shortage of suitable candidates in the next 12 months as business confidence continues to grow.
This is the highest percentage across all UK regions.
The guide also shows 71 per cent of employers here plan to increase headcount during this year.
Confidence is also increasing amongst jobseekers with 58 per cent of employees in Scotland anticipating they’ll move jobs in the next year, with 50 per cent of these feeling they don’t have enough scope for career progression in their current organisation.
As this positive outlook continues, competition for skills increases, so it’s more important than ever for employers to ensure they are offering the right mix of salary and benefits to retain and attract the best talent.
However, according to Akash Marwaha, managing director for Hays in Scotland, there is a growing mismatch between the benefits employers are offering and what now appeals to jobseekers.
“Benefits most commonly offered by employers are above statutory contributory pension, over 25 days’ annual leave and financial support for professional studies.
“However, 35 per cent of respondents in our survey rated having more than 25 days’ leave as their top priority, with only eight per cent favouring financial support for study.
“Flexi-time and working from home were also rated highly (68 per cent and 52 per cent respectively), but only 44 per cent of organisations encourage their employees to take up flexible working options.”
Marwaha continues: “Employers need to broaden their outlook on what benefits they offer and what employees actually value.
“As the jobs market is now improving, so are people’s expectations of what constitutes good employee benefits.
“These days it’s not always about a pension and performance-related bonuses. Flexible working and a satisfactory work-life balance are considered equally important.
“Silicon Valley offering egg-freezing for women was well publicised, and whilst we haven’t seen any of the companies we work with offer anything similar, organisations are getting more creative with benefits.
“They’re also making them more flexible so employees can pick and choose what suits them most.”
The world of employment has altered drastically during the last couple of decades.
The concept of ‘a job for life’ is no longer the expectation while developments in technology have changed the face of how and where people work.
Microsoft, more than most, is aware of the significance of this constantly shifting work environment.
Its brand catch line is ‘we care about our people,’ a principle that most companies, regardless of size, will share.
Microsoft UK declares: “We think work should be challenging.
“But it should also be rewarding and that’s why we reward our employees for a job well done with a comprehensive pay and benefits package including a competitive base salary, bonuses based on performance and achievement of objectives, the opportunity to purchase stock at a discount, a company car, discounts on Microsoft products and software, fully-funded confidential counselling if needed, holiday insurance, life assurance, health insurance, personal accident insurance and private medical insurance.”
Alongside those basics, Microsoft also offers a pick and mix of rewards from which employees can choose.
The options include health and wellbeing facilities, Xbox breaks, staff restaurants and lunch deliveries, flexible working, social groups and other benefits in kind.
The culture and ethos of any business will dictate much of the approach to what is required from its staff.
At IT leads generation operator Pursuit Marketing in Glasgow, CEO Patrick Byrne says his policy owes far less to experience than to attitude.
“We are in the very competitive market of call centres and tele-marketing, he said.
“We constantly need to come up with new, fresh ways to attract and retain people.
“Salary is not the greatest driver – number one is the company culture and second is the people you work with and the job you enjoy.
“We don’t recruit on experience at all but on attitude.”
The methodology is clearly working for Pursuit.
Since the business began in 2011 with five employees, it has now grown to 35 and a turnover of &pound;2m.
“Only one member of staff that we’d have liked to keep has left us in the last year,” says Byrne. “We have reduced sickness by 97 per cent and lateness by 98 per cent in the last 18 months.
“As a small company, we can’t afford those negatives so we have approached this is a positive way.
“We have gym classes every Monday morning and available at lunchtime.
“We run boot camps and a company sports day, we have teams in the half-marathon and we actively encourage people to get involved.
“We have a family day at Loch Lomond with a barbecue, a staff ski weekend at Aviemore and we also host a big annual charity ball for 600 people to raise funds for the Beatson cancer charity and everyone gets involved with that.
“All these activities bring camaraderie and build team spirit but aren’t chores, aren’t imposed and aren’t compulsory. People enjoy them. That’s why they work.”
If it’s camaraderie you want, then public relations and marketing expert the Big Partnership has an appealing offer.
Big director Zoe Ogilvie offers: “A bottle of champagne and a day off on your birthday.”
Appealing though that is, Big does offer more in the way of substantial employee benefits as Ogilvie elaborates: “We guard our company culture jealously because it’s what sets us apart.
“We’ve always fostered a tremendously strong team ethos – if you’re going to produce top-level work for clients, you definitely need the input of your colleagues.
“Of course, our benefits like private healthcare, generous pension contributions and holiday allowances and a strong focus on training all play their part in attracting and retaining the best talent, but it’s the team spirit which makes the real difference.”
Companies seeking to either create or improve their benefits packages will normally seek legal advice and, depending upon the internal infrastructure capacity, that of a commercial accountant.
Nigel Watson, head of employee benefits at Brodies, says there is no ‘one size fits all’: “I work across the whole gamut of companies from the FTSE100 to start-ups.
“The demands and needs will be very different.
“Big companies have the full HR structure in place while small ones may well need support. “Family-run companies have different needs again and will probably want to examine things like succession planning and its tax implications.
“While much of the legal information about employee rights and employer responsibilities are familiar, there are always exceptions.
“I get questions about whether agency workers are entitled to profit bonuses or discounted company shares, for example. The legislation is not always crystal clear.
“If you run a cake stall, you won’t be able to offer any very sophisticated benefit package but if you have a moderately ambitious – and growing – company with 50 to 100 staff, you will be actively seeking the best available talent with the most attractive and competitive package.”
The benefit packages on offer are building a new culture: “Look at Google, for example.
“There are fantastic reward strategies that match the company values.
“Staff feel loved and valued because of duvet days, heavily subsidised canteens, cr&egrave;ches on campus, flexible working and home working.
“The old command and control model has died. Technology has changed it forever.”
Brodies’ own staff enjoy the fruits of the alternative ‘benefit culture.’
Kirstie Maclennan is HR director: “We look at things in terms of our total reward scheme.
“It isn’t just about money but about looking at everything in the round.
“We are focused on areas such as transparency, career progression, what individuals are seeking when they join the firm and we follow through on those things.
“There is a huge amount of investment in the Brodies brand.
“We want our people to feel a part of that right from the start and we bring them in twice a year for discussions so they don’t feel isolated.
“Because of the way in which we take on our trainees while they are still studying, we have campus ambassadors at each university.
“They have already bought into the business.
“Those 17 trainees will then spend an initial eight months in different business areas while they learn where their particular interests and preferences lie.
There is a clear framework to follow.”
At KPMG in Scotland, Eddie Norrie is the expert adviser for clients seeking to bring new people on board, whether that’s on a short-term contract for a specific project or a long-term staff posting.
“In spite of the recession, there remains a premium on high quality staff.
“That hasn’t changed so companies really do need to provide a competitive package.
“There is a variety in the ways people approach employment and companies need to be able to reflect that and to offer variations.
“Benefits packages are not a fixed list.
“Instead, there needs to be the ability to self-serve and self-select benefits.
“What is attractive to one individual won’t necessarily be a main driver for another.
“Pension contributions, for example, may appeal to a slightly older employee but young graduates are probably more interested in a car.
“Salary sacrifice schemes that allow people options such as, for example, securing a parking space or more holiday time, private medical insurance and so on, attract different people for different reasons.
“Companies need to be flexible enough to respond to that range of incentives.”
But don’t smaller companies, the backbone of the Scottish economy, find it very difficult to compete with the kinds of attractive packages offered up by the big corporates?
“There is some truth in that,” Norrie acknowledges.
“But SMEs are attractive for different reasons.
“Not everyone wants the big corporate kind of culture, perhaps with a certain sense of anonymity. “For those people, the smaller scale environment may be far more attractive even if it doesn’t offer the same kinds of employee benefits.”
To Norrie, what’s most important is to establish a clear starting position: “Our advice is principally around what it is you have and what your recruitment needs are.
“Is it that you need a team of engineers for a specific project?
“Is it appropriate for them to be paid on the same lines as your existing workforce or do you want to use some kind of special incentives where, for example, you might offer up share-based opportunities as you work towards selling the company and paying shares on exit.”
While cycling to work, low emission cars and the provision of health insurance all attract interest, premium talent wants more than the basics.
Employers able to offer childcare facilities or vouchers, salary sacrifice options and other inventive benefits will continue to cream off the best available recruits.
