FIREBUGS have twice attacked part of Glasgow’s heritage this week as council bosses defend plans for the development of the Clyde.
The former pump house at the Govan Graving Docks was twice set alight, worrying campaigners and residents hoping to preserve one of the last pieces of the city’s shipbuilding history.
City officials pointed to new developments such as the Hydro, Riverside Museum and International Financial Services District as proof of their commitment to regeneration and protecting “Clydeside heritage”.
The sandstone pumphouse, largely skeletal now, has seemingly survived the blazes that were set on piles of rubbish moved into the centre of the structure.
The area around it has been considered for a housing development for some time, prior to the market crash in 2008, as well as a rival proposal for a heritage park for the public.
 

Photographer Joe Shaldon, who runs the Derelict Glasgow website celebrating the city’s heritage and warning of the risk to its loss, said the Strathclyde region as a whole was suffering firebugs.
Past statistics showed of 736 derelict building fires in Scotland, 685 were classed as deliberate and 533 were in Strathclyde.
He said: “The Pumphouse building still stands today, largely unaffected by the two blazes which debris to be found internally suggest were the result of burning vehicle tyres. Ironically the ruinous state of the building has served to protect it.
“Internally stripped, bare stone walls and the last metal struts, beams and purlins of the roof are all that remains. These are materials which by their nature do not combust, but nonetheless can be greatly damaged by fire.
“The Graving Docks site as a whole has been under proposed development both for housing and latterly a heritage park celebrating the area's shipbuilding heritage. Neither plan has yet been developed to the point where the future of the site looks more certain.
“For now it is an area fenced off from the vibrant community of Govan to the south and west, populated only by boundless nature, the occasional dog walker, intrepid explorer or as indicated by the probable cause of the fires, that of the wilful fire-raiser, bent on destruction.&quot;
 

Earlier this week, Glasgow City Council approved a massive new development for 342 rental-only properties across the river at Glasgow Harbour, ranging from 12 to 16 storeys tall.
Significant objections had been raised by residents and MSPs and councillors but the proposal, by Kippax, part of the Dandara Group, will go ahead anyway and be phase three of the GH&sup2;O development.
Glasgow Now asked the council what is their current plan for development of the Clydeside and protection for its heritage. We also asked if the council was embarrassed by the Govan Graving Docks or the empty land on either side of the Riverside Museum.
A spokesman said: “Glasgow City Council is extremely keen on promoting and protecting the city’s Clydeside heritage, and examples of our commitment to regenerating both the banks of the river can be found all the way from the city centre (two new bridges and the International Financial Services District) to the new STV and BBC Scotland buildings, Glasgow Science Centre, Film City Glasgow and the digital and media hub at Pacific Quay to the venues across the river at the SECC, including the SSE Hydro Arena and the Clyde Auditorium.
“Further up the river is a regenerated Govan Cross, Glasgow Harbour and of course the Riverside Museum, where the heritage of the Clyde is most visibly celebrated (indeed it signposts – in a display – all the key sites of this heritage for visitors to consider and perhaps visit).
“In addition, there are a number of new hotels, with the new distillery in the pipeline beside the helicopter landing site. Over the years, there have been a number of proposals to develop the Graving Docks and we remain very confident that the regeneration of the Clydeside – an ongoing process - will continue as the investment/development climate improves.”
