Just over three years ago Perth won back its official status as a city after winning a UK competition marking the Queen’s diamond jubilee.
Since then Perth has taken full advantage of its city label with a determination to change its image from what has been perceived by some as a sleepy market town into a thriving ‘happening’ city for young people to stay and work.
“It used to be in the past that Perth was seen as a place for the silver-haired brigade,” says Anne Smith, who is managing director of commercial property provider and manager Castlecroft Securities.
“We need to change that and need to get young people and new companies into Perth,” says Smith, whose company has 140 tenants in properties ranging from the prestigious King James VI Business Centre to 3000 sq ft industrial premises.
“We need investment and manufacturing. We need to give these young people jobs.”
Smith is a proud ambassador for Invest in Perth, which was launched by Perth &amp; Kinross Council to promote the city and entice inward investors.
The effort appears to be paying off with Premier Inn investing &pound;4.5m in a new 83-bedroom hotel in a former dyeworks factory in the city last year and creating 35 new jobs.
Also last year G1 Group, headed by leisure tycoon Stefan King, installed the first IMAX screen in Scotland north of Edinburgh and Glasgow at the B-listed art deco Playhouse cinema in Perth.
Just nearby almost &pound;15m is being spent on the refurbishment and expansion of the city’s historic Perth Theatre as part of the council’s plans to entice more visitors.
The theatre, which has seen famous actors including Alec Guinness, Donald Sutherland and Ewan MacGregor treading the boards, is closed until 2017 but the nearby state-of-the-art Perth Concert Hall is filling in the gap with popular shows like the legendary annual pantomime being relocated there.
David Littlejohn, head of planning and regeneration at Perth &amp; Kinross Council, says some people were quite critical of Premier Inn being the operator it ultimately chose for the building but it had brought people in.
“People are now coming to Perth for those city break weekends because it is affordable, you know what you are getting, it is a reasonable quality and they spend money in the pubs, restaurants and shops.
And Premier Inn are more than delighted with the return that they have made thus far.
“People like Stefan King have made a significant investment in Perth.
“The Playhouse is also across from one of the restaurants he has opened in Perth. Stefan sees that there is opportunity in a regional market outside Glasgow and Edinburgh.”
Littlejohn says the council embarked a couple of years ago on its first take on a city plan.
“It was not a land use plan but a plan to grow Perth in terms of the attractiveness of the city,” he says.
“We identified what some of the weaknesses were.
“The core city is 50,000 people.
“The wider travel to work area is around 140,000. So it is a small city but pretty well at the centre of the transport network and therefore highly connected to everywhere else.
“We were trying to understand what Perth could do to generate more wealth for its businesses.
“Our first city plan was looking at things like growing our visitor economy.
“Perthshire itself is an incredibly successful visitor destination but Perth, the city, underperforms.
“A lot of people fondly talk about Perth – it is an attractive place.
“They have nice memories of it but comparatively few people have actually been to it in recent years.
“So it was finding a way to play to the city’s strengths.
“It has a very strong independent retail sector and a disproportionate number of good quality restaurants.
“How do we drive up visitor spend in the city centre, particularly in the evenings?
“The city plan set out some proposals for that.
“A lot of it was based around making the place look even more attractive.
“There have been multi-million pound investments in public realm and that is continuing.
“There is &pound;15m or thereabouts committed to redevelop Perth Theatre.
“We need to do an awful lot more to help us deliver all that.
“We put feelers out last year for the private sector to join us on that journey.
“The council doesn’t create wealth, the private sector creates wealth. So we formed the Perth City Development Board.
“The majority of members are from the private sector.
“It is chaired by the private sector and has representatives of all the key sectors and major private sector employers.
“The board is there to champion Perth.
“It is there to challenge us in terms of what it thinks needs to be done.
“At present we are just finalising city plan two, which is radically more ambitious than city plan one, and that is being championed by the board and looking at significant investment in culture and cultural attractions.”
One of the issues it is looking at is the hotel sector in Perth.
Although the 1200-seat concert hall attracts around 50 bigger conferences a year and 20,000 delegates it is losing out on a number of other potential ones.
Michaela Ruff, conference and events manager at concert hall manager Horsecross, says the city is lacking four-star hotel accommodation for conference delegates.
“That is not to dismiss the luxury country house hotels that are surrounding us in Perth and Kinross but within walking distance we don’t have enough,” she says.
Stuart Oliver, who is inward investment and marketing officer with Perth &amp; Kinross Council, and responsible for running Invest in Perth, says it certainly believes there is a demand for a four star-plus hotel.
And he is optimistic about the city’s ability to change and grow.
“There is a lot happening which is about to come to fruition,” he says.
“In five years’ time Perth city centre is going to look significantly different in terms of the assets we have.”
Littlejohn says Perth does pretty well because of its large private sector employment relative to the size of the city, particularly with 2500 people working at energy giant SSE, which is headquartered in the city, and 1500 people based at insurance group Aviva’s offices.
Outside Perth a lot of the economy is based on tourism, and food and drink, which are traditionally lower paying jobs.
Unemployment for the Perth &amp; Kinross region is now around 1.4 per cent but it is only about halfway up the Scottish prosperity league of the 32 councils.
“The big challenge here is not creating jobs,” says Littlejohn.
“It is creating higher value jobs and that is the big drive of all of our growth and investment as well as delivering infrastructure to make Perth and Kinross a great place to live.
“It is a long, slow burn but there are some key areas where there is some growth and we can do more with food and drink being our principal area of focus.”
“We have one of the largest concentrations of food and drink businesses in Scotland.
“A lot are at the micro end of the spectrum so it is how we can work with those companies to get them further up the value added chain, particularly with internationalisation and exporting.”
The council is creating a new 26-acre food and drink park on the northern edge of Perth just beside the Inveralmond roundabout so it is directly plugged into the trunk road network.
“Our strategy is what do we do to support those businesses either through Business Gateway or connecting them into SDI or giving them the facilities they need to grow and I guess that is where the food and drink park plays comes into it.
“That is about helping those highly innovative potential exporting food and drink businesses to move production out of, in some cases, literally the farm kitchen and giving them that next stage in their growth.”
Perthshire Chamber of Commerce chief executive Vicki Unite says the restoration of city status and the springboard that has created has really given everything another lease of life and galvanised everyone into wanting to make the most of the opportunity.
“We have been working closely with the council and other organisations to make sure we get the most benefit because we will only be the newest city for so long and then it becomes a bit old hat,” says Unite, whose organisation has some 400 members who in turn employ thousands of people in the region.
“Certainly the last two or three years have really buoyed up and we have been getting a lot of enquiries, a lot of new business starts and I think people are just determined and creative.
“They have been innovative and just determined to get through it.
“There is always a natural cull at times like this, and that is sad, but it is other opportunities for other businesses at that stage.
“During the recession, the chamber rose to the challenge of providing in-demand business support – much of which was targeted at new one/two person businesses, launched following redundancy or liquidation of their previous employer.
“Self-employed business people now make up a considerable percentage of our membership and the support offered by us continues to address the need for more ‘survive and thrive’ issues.”
One contentious issue has been the fate of the former City Hall, which has been closed since 2005 when the new concert hall opened.
Plans for a mixed-use development failed due to the inability of the developer to secure funding and a later plan to partially demolish it and create a public square was rejected by Historic Scotland.
So it went back out to market and now the council is considering two proposals for the hall.
One is for a conversion into a five-star hotel, which already has planning consent, and the other is to create a combination of food market hall and community venue.
Litlejohn says a decision is likely to be made in May.
Unite says it would be great to have a resolution as soon as possible.
“I think people would like to see something happen quickly because it has been going on far too long and benefits absolutely nobody,” she says.
Perth is home to a number of small but thriving companies and one of them is the 116-year old independent land agent, estate agent and chartered surveyor Bell Ingram.
However, the firm, which employs 120 people across nine offices, looks to rural Scotland and northern England for its work.
Mark Mitchell, land and rural management director, says its specialism is working with farms and estates but it is also a rural estate agent.
“Last year was a strange year as a result of the referendum.
“It stopped our sales side dead around April and then we had a flurry of activity between September 18 and Christmas.
“It is always a busy time but the combination of the referendum result being known and hopscotch in terms of the stamp duty led to a bit of transactional work as people tried to get the more expensive properties through whilst there was a lower UK rate.”
He says the rural property market is looking more encouraging this year.
“We are seeing reasonable offers coming in for properties.”
Castlecroft Securities was founded in 1984 by John Black, his wife Sheena and his stepbrother Alex Wishart.
Managing director Anne Smith says the firm started off doing a bit of housebuilding and bought some property down at the harbour in Perth and at the same time developed into a toilet hire company, Scotloo.
“That came on the back of building houses and not being able to get toilet facilities for people on sites.
“The company bought more land and started building small industrial units and that has evolved over the years.”
Today it has six business centres in Perth as well as self-storage sites between Perth and Dundee and a number of industrial units.
Smith says it has managed to maintain a very good hold on its existing client base by being flexible. “We have experienced companies that have struggled so we have allowed them to downsize and have been here when they have improved their business and grow with us too.”
Its flagship King James Business Centre houses companies including MGM Timber, which is headquartered in Perth.
Jonathan Reid, partner at chartered surveyor J&amp;E Shepherd, says property deal activity has picked up in Perth over the last six months with the light industrial sector generating significant interest. “This has seen a flurry of sales and letting disposals upon the main industrial estates.
For example, a 2,850 sq ft workshop and office facility in the prominent central location of Jeanfield Road was bought this month for &pound;200,000 by an investor who is now seeking to lease the unit. Early tenant interest has been received.
“Almondgrove Place, a modern parade of commercial units within Inveralmond Industrial Estate, became fully let in November with leases to Callum Walker Interiors, Dolby Vivisol and The Wee
Spray Shop.”
One of the most ambitious proposals for Perth is the &pound;25m ‘PH20’ project, which will redevelop the city’s leisure pool and combine it in a complex with a new ice rink replacing the one at the Dewar’s centre.
It is the brainchild of Live Active Leisure, the Perth and Kinross leisure trust, and &pound;10m funding – including a &pound;5m pledge from Perth &amp; Kinross Council – is already in place for the Glover Street development.
Jim Moyes, Live Active Leisure chief executive, says the centre could propel Perth to the forefront of the country’s sport and leisure opportunities, mirroring the impact of prior innovations like Bell’s Sports Centre and the Leisure Pool, which has attracted more than 12 million visitors since it opened in 1988.
“We are in a really positive position already and we envisage it would be four to five years through to opening the doors, subject to securing the funding,” says Moyes.
“The PH2O vision showcases a ‘one-door’ approach featuring flexible swimming spaces, leisure attractions, fitness and health facilities, ice rink and adventure activity and play.
“It will become the largest and most versatile sports and leisure centre in Perth and Kinross.
“It is expected to attract 250,000 visitors each year to the area, generating a spend of at least &pound;2.5m into the local economy as well as creating great demand from across the area’s communities.
“User demand has changed considerably over the last quarter-century and this project will see Perth Leisure Pool substantially redeveloped and remodelled.”
Oliver says the demolition of the Dewar Centre will free up commercial land immediately beside it which will be very attractive.
“We have already got quite a lot of interest in that from a range of different potential investors and developers. The plans for PH20 are substantial and certainly will be something of national importance and definitely one of the leading indoor leisure facilities in Scotland for sure.”
Littlejohn says the Perth &amp; Kinross region is on the cusp of substantial growth with something like 24 per cent projected population growth over the next 15 to 20 years.
“We have also got the fastest growing primary school population in Scotland.”
He says it is the only council area in Scotland building a brand new secondary school campus to serve its population growth.
“Many places are replacing existing schools, which we are doing too, but this is a new facility.
“With that comes the challenges of the provision of the infrastructure required.
“That is one of the big challenges we have, particularly roads.
“Perth is constrained by its geography.
“Most of the city is split by the river and access to the city from one side requires crossing one of two bridges.
“That in itself has led to congestion and air quality issues which in some streets in Perth are as bad as they are in the centre of Edinburgh or Glasgow.
“All the land available for expansion is on the other side of the A9 so we need to connect that together.”
Perth Transport Futures is a &pound;120m investment in roads infrastructure, the first phase of which is a new junction across the A9.
It has been relatively controversial locally because it requires the road to be routed between the back of McDiarmid Park and Perth Crematorium.
The planning consent decision was due to be made just as Insider was going to press.
If it does go ahead Stewart Milne and Springfield are hoping to build the first of 7000 houses on the western edge of Perth.
The road will also serve the new secondary school.
In a second phase it is proposed the road will eventually swing back round over the A9, the railway and the River Tay.
The proposal has proved controversial as the proposed bridge and road will pass close to the biggest tourist attraction in the area, Scone Palace, with the road connecting around the northern edge of the palace back into Scone where more housebuilding is planned.
Last month revised plans for a major development with up to 1500 homes called Almond Valley on a 160-acre site on the north-west edge of Perth were revealed by Pilkington Trust, which owns the land.
The development, which is being promoted by Savills Rural, based in Perth, would include a new primary school, community centre, leisure facilities, cycle paths and walkways.
Initial planning permission for Almond Valley was refused in 2012 but after being referred back to Scottish Ministers, it was re-allocated for development.
