NICOLA Sturgeon was today challenged to sack an SNP election candidate who likened No voters to Nazis.
Edinburgh South SNP candidate Neil Hay used an anonymous Twitter account to insult rivals while he was officially running the Yes Scotland campaign in Edinburgh Southern.
Using the Twitter name Paco McSheepie, he also hurled derision at elderly voters for “barely knowing their own name”.
It is the first time that a such a senior SNP figure who is standing for election has been caught peddling Cybernat abuse over the internet.
Revelations of Hay’s behaviour online will cause acute embarrassment to the SNP leadership, which has publicly condemned online abuse of the party’s opponents.
 

Hay - who only deleted the Paco McSheepie account yesterday - has now issued a public apology.
In October 2012, Hay used the account to liken No voters to Nazis by calling them “Quislings” – after the name of reviled Nazi collaborator Vidkun Quisling, who headed the puppet Norwegian government during the Second World War.
And in June 2012 he used the account to insult the elderly, saying that many retired voters didn’t even know their own name.
The outburst has provided a rare proven link between senior members of the SNP and the Cybernats who use social media anonymously to launch attacks on opponents.
Scottish Labour’s deputy leader Kezia Dugdale today demanded the SNP sacks him and claimed that the issue is now “a test of Nicola Sturgeon’s leadership”.

“Nicola Sturgeon must sack Neil Hay. When a journalist was called a quisling recently the SNP leader said that kind of language has absolutely no place in democratic political debate.”
In a statement, Hay said: “The words in these old tweets were poorly chosen, and I apologise for any offence caused. They are not in keeping with the way I would express myself now.
“To make it clear that I and the way I express myself have moved on – I hope and believe for the better – I deleted this Twitter account, and only use my own campaign account.”
Sturgeon is likely to be challenged over Hay's conduct at First Minister's Questions at Holyrood today.
Married father-of-two Hay used to live in Spain and says the SNP's Holyrood election victory in 2011 was his “cue” to return to Scotland.

