This is the heart-stopping moment a climber made a wrong move which sent him plunging down an icy cliff face as he scaled a Scottish mountain.
Karlis Bardelis, 30, from Latvia was attempting to climb a 60 metre cliff in Coire an Lochain, Scotland, during a training exercise.
Footage from a camera attached to Karlis's helmet shows his ice axe coming loose - knocking his other axe out of position.
The keen climber then begins a terrifying three-and-a-half second, ten-metre free fall before his safety ropes catch him.
 

Footage from the training exercise in 2012 has only been released but highlights the potential dangers involved in the popular sport.
Karlis, who now works in Nepal, said: &quot;My ropes saved me and stopped my fall.
&quot;These kind of falls are very dangerous because I'm carrying two ice tools and crampons, both of which are really sharp and could cause serious injuries.
&quot;Obviously there's the risk of hitting a rock on my way down, which can cause serious fractures.
&quot;I never think that I'm going to die in these situations, which is why I never consider death as an option&quot;
 

Karlis had travelled to Scotland to take part in a training course organised by the British Mountaineering Council joining climbers from 26 countries.
And he attempted the level six climb with some trepidation.
He said: &quot;I was feeling excited about that climb but at the same time I was feeling scared in those difficult parts too.
&quot;I fell because I made a mistake; I put one ice axe in a crack and was trying to put another one in but the placement wasn't good so it ripped the other one out.
&quot;My crampons weren't in a stable place so I fell.&quot;
 

The footage shows Karlis tumble backwards from the cliff face and free fall towards the ground.
He said: &quot;I was just thinking 'I hope I land somewhere soft and don't break any bones'.&quot;
Incredibly, after being saved by his harness, Karlis continued his ascent after the fall.
He said: &quot;I climbed back to the same place and this time did it right using the same technique.
&quot;Some people laugh when they see the video - others say they are not going to sleep after seeing it.
&quot;I guess it was a good example of how not to climb.&quot;
