The family of an innocent young man killed by two scumbags outside a pub told yesterday how the vile couple had condemned them to a life of grief.
Jordan Mackay’s loved ones had just seen vicious ex-convict Jack Mallon jailed for at least 19 years for murdering their “perfect, handsome boy” with an unprovoked knife blow to the neck.
Mallon’s vile girlfriend Charlene Wilson, who triggered the attack, got nine years for culpable homicide.
The family said: “Mallon and Wilson will wake up every morning knowing they are responsible for the death of our only son. We wake up not knowing how to move on.”
Jordan, 20, was killed in the early hours of July 13 last year while out in South Queensferry with Nicole McKay, his girlfriend since they were both 13 . They planned to marry.
They had the bad luck to encounter Wilson, 37, in the town’s Stag’s Head pub. She was drunk and looking for trouble and shouted something at Nicole, who laughed it off.
 

Wilson tried to hit Jordan as he and Nicole left, then threatened to have other people outside killed.
She phoned Mallon, 47, who drove to the scene with the knife. He has convictions for violence and drugs.
Nicole saw Mallon get out of a car and go for Jordan, brandishing the blade. She saw the knife in the air, then Jordan holding his neck.
Mallon had left him with a deadly, four-inch wound. Hysterical Nicole, 21, gave the young joiner mouth to mouth as he lay dying in the street.
Both scum denied murder, forcing the family to endure a trial.
Mallon had the gall to claim self-defence but was convicted of murder. Wilson, who blamed Mallon, was found guilty of the lesser crime of culpable homicide.
 

At the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday, Judge Johanna Johnston QC told Mallon: “You wanted some sort of revenge for what Wilson was involved in – and what Jordan Mackay had played no part in.”
She told Wilson her “drunken and aggressive” behaviour was “the trigger that led to the murder”.
The family, from Edinburgh, said they couldn’t be more proud of “our Jord” and now had “some justice”. But they added: “Nothing can bring our perfect, handsome boy back to us.”
Nicole’s dad David said the horror had changed his daughter.
“She’s never going to get over it,” he added. “None of the family is.”
He said of Mallon’s sentence: “Nineteen years doesn’t matter, does it? It should have been 100 years.”
