NICOLA Sturgeon today condemned an SNP election candidate who likened No voters to Nazis - but refused to sack him.
Edinburgh South SNP candidate Neil Hay used an anonymous Twitter account to insult rivals while he was running the official Yes Scotland campaign in Edinburgh Southern.
Using the Twitter name Paco McSheepie, he also hurled derision at elderly voters for “barely knowing their own name”.
It is the first time that a such a senior SNP figure who is standing for election has been caught peddling Cybernat abuse over the internet.
Sturgeon said today of Hay's behaviour : “I condemn these comments.”
But she rejected calls from Labour to sack him as a candidate for the SNP.
She said: “Neil Hay has rightly apologised. I think given that we face an election in two weeks today it is now up to voters to decide.&quot;
 

In an extremely heated exchange at First Minister's Questions, Sturgeon also referenced offensive comments about the SNP made by Labour activist Ian Smart.
She challenged Scottish Labour deputy leader Kezia Dugdale to condemn his description of the SNP as &quot;fascist scum&quot;.
Dugdale said she took the comments seriously but pointed out Smart is not an election candidate.
&quot;Neil Hay is on the ballot paper,&quot; she added Revelations of Hay’s behaviour online have caused acute embarrassment to the SNP leadership, which has publicly condemned online abuse of the party’s opponents.
Hay - who only deleted the Paco McSheepie account yesterday – last night issued a public apology.
In October 2012, Hay used the account to liken No voters to Nazis by calling them “Quislings” – after the name of reviled Nazi collaborator Vidkun Quisling, who headed the puppet Norwegian government during the Second World War.
And in June 2012 he used the account to insult the elderly, saying that many retired voters didn’t even know their own name.

The outburst has provided a rare proven link between senior members of the SNP and the Cybernats who use social media anonymously to launch attacks on opponents.
Dugdale claimed that the issue is now “a test of Nicola Sturgeon’s leadership”.
“Nicola Sturgeon must sack Neil Hay,” she said. “When a journalist was called a quisling recently the SNP leader said that kind of language has absolutely no place in democratic political debate.”
In a statement, Hay said: “The words in these old tweets were poorly chosen, and I apologise for any offence caused. They are not in keeping with the way I would express myself now.
“To make it clear that I and the way I express myself have moved on – I hope and believe for the better – I deleted this Twitter account, and only use my own campaign account.”
Married father-of-two Hay used to live in Spain and says the SNP's Holyrood election victory in 2011 was his “cue” to return to Scotland.

