LIMBS in the loch killer William Beggs has been scalded in a revenge attack behind bars.
Beggs, who is serving life for murdering and dismembering Barry Wallace, 18, screamed in pain as boiling water was thrown over his face and hands in the cell attack.
The attacker was Daniel Hamilton, a drug offender due for release this year.
Hamilton, who was moved from Saughton Prison, Edinburgh, after the assault on Beggs has boasted to friends about the incident.
He said he was taking revenge for Beggs attacking him soon after he arrived at Saughton.
It is understood Beggs was treated for burns in the prison’s infirmary but did not need to attend hospital.
 

A source said Hamilton had been trying to get at Beggs for some time.
The source explained: “Hamilton was shouting about being assaulted by Beggs in his cell.
“He said he managed to push Beggs off as he was on top of him and tried to punch him.”
It’s understood Beggs attacked Hamilton for punching his friend, convicted child kidnapper John McPhee, who he claimed was bullying him when they shared a cell.
Hamilton, who is expected to be released from prison in November, told a friend: “When the papers hear I’ve scalded that animal Beggs, set about another beast at court, cracked an old evil b*****d who bullied me for three days then lay in silence for more than four months, then they’ll probably rather vote for me than Nicola Sturgeon.”
He is serving the remainder of his sentence at Shotts prison.
Beggs was jailed in 2001 for the murder of Barry in Kilmarnock in 1999. The teenager’s limbs and torso were found in Loch Lomond.
 

The killer has become a self-styled legal expert in jail and has helped many prisoners with appeals and compensation hearings.
Earlier this year it was revealed he’d cost taxpayers &pound;42,000 in legal wrangles.
A spokesman for the Scottish Prison Service said: “We do not comment on individual prisoners.”
Beggs is not the first high-profile killer to be attacked while doing time.
Serial killer Peter Tobin was taken to hospital in 2007 after being beaten up by notorious sex offender and lifer John Bermingham.
And Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe was attacked by a fellow inmate at Broadmoor psychiatric hospital who tried to gouge out his one remaining eye.
He lost the other one in an earlier attack while locked up.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

