T IN THE PARK bosses insisted last night that Scotland’s biggest music festival will still go ahead, despite the return of two Ospreys to the site.
Wildlife experts want a 750 metre exclusion zone around the nest being used by the birds, which would seriously disrupt plans for the massive event in July at Strathallan Castle.
Festival organisers had hoped a cherry picker, complete with saltire and balloons, would be enough to discourage the Osprey pair from returning and they would instead use a newly constructed nest nearby.
 

However, a spokeswoman said last night: “We can confirm that Osprey have returned to Strathallan but the expert opinion of our ornithologist is that they have not yet nested.
“The RSPB believes that the previous nest is active and as such, close monitoring via the cherrypicker has been removed and we will continue to liaise with the relevant organisations to ensure the protection of the birds. We will also provide an update when the chosen location of the birds becomes clear.

“In the meantime, we’d also like to assure fans that the festival will go ahead. The decision on our planning application will still be made in May and we remain confident that the event will take place at Strathallan.”
The festival is due to take place over the weekend of July 10-12 with headliners Kasabian, Noel Gallagher's High Flying Birds and The Libertines.
Thousands of tickets have been sold and many festival goers have booked accommodation nearby.
Last week the owners of Strathallan Castle urged Perth and Kinross Council to grant planning permission for T in the Park. The event is worth millions to the Scottish economy.
The Roberts family have owned Strathallan Castle for more than a century and Jamie and Debs Roberts are on tenterhooks over the decision due next month.

Debs said: “A supporter stopped me in the street saying one of their concerns is that if the planning application doesn’t go through the town of Auchterarder would be seen as the town that says, ‘No’ to things. That would do real damage.
“I would be really worried that it would earn a reputation around the world as the town that said, ‘No’ to T in the Park because it would damage the reputation of Auchterarder and Perthshire going forward.”

However a small but well organised group of local people called Strathallan T Action Group — or STAG for short — are opposed to the event taking place on their doorstep.
The festival has to move from Balaldo, near Kinross, over health and safety fears because of a gas pipeline running underneath the site.
Try our quick entertainment quiz below:

 
