THE Thai girlfriend of a Scots seaman yesterday denied any involvement in his death.
Iain Mackay was fatally injured when he drunkenly kicked a mirror in a fit of rage in Hua Hin.
His girlfriend Nilobon Patty – known as Patty Patrick – has been accused of indirectly causing the tragedy because Iain’s temper was sparked by her seeing another man.
Patty said she has had death threats and been warned to leave the town.
She said: “I am really upset and shocked and I am confused about what happened. Iain was a lovely man and what happened is terrible.
“People have been phoning me and making threats and saying I should leave Hua Hin. But I have done nothing wrong.
“I don’t know why anyone would say that I had anything to do with Iain’s death. That is not true. It was just a terrible accident.”
 

Iain, 40, from Stornoway, went on a booze bender before going into a pool shop and bar which Patty runs.
Thai police say he kicked the wall mirror because he was furious she wasn’t there.
He severed an artery in one leg and badly injured the other leg.
Iain died soon after being taken to hospital.
Reports on social media suggested Iain had clashed with his lover and another man earlier after finding them together at a bar.
Patty said a man with an English accent made the phone threats.
She denied that Iain had interrupted her as she enjoyed a date with another man. And she claimed she has been shunned by friends after gossips spread rumours about her.
Facebook friends of Iain had claimed that in the hours before his death, he had posted an online video of Patty and the other man drinking together.
Patty met Iain three years ago in Bangkok and the pair have spent time since at her home in Hua Hin, about 125 miles south of the capital.
They arranged visits around his work as a seaman for a Dubai-based seismic investigation agency.
 

Patty said that after Iain arrived on his latest trip to Thailand on March 22, the couple had decided to put their relationship on hold.
Patty added: “I went to pick him up from the airport. He came to stay with me to start with.
“Everything was OK but we had a lot to talk about and he told me that he thought it would be fairer on me if we stopped seeing each other.
“He could not settle down in one place for long enough to make a relationship work and he said that meant we could not have a long future together.
“I agreed with him because things had not been great recently. Normally, he would have come to see me every two months or so. But this time it had been six months, which is too long.
“I still loved him because he is a lovely guy but it was the right thing to do.”
Iain moved out of Patty’s home and booked into a nearby hotel. But the couple kept in regular touch and he still took his laundry to Patty’s home.
The day before Iain’s death on Friday, Patty claims to have been at the beach with her son.
She said: “On the way back, I met Iain in a beer garden and we had a drink and something to eat. When I left Iain around 6pm, he was happy.
“He said he was very happy with his life and he was going to go out and get drunk because he had been working hard and he was on holiday.”
Patty said she spotted Iain later that night walking on the pavement outside the bar she was drinking in.
She said: “I don’t know what was going on in his head at the time. I saw him outside and he came in and it was obvious he was drunk.
“I was with friends. People were playing pool and I was having a drink. He came up and started shouting at me and asking if I was laughing at him. It was around 1am and I decided I would go home.
“I said I would take Iain home. He said he didn’t want to because he was having fun.”
Patty said police came to her home the next morning to tell her about the Master Cues pool bar horror.
She added: “I was told that Iain had gone there at 3am looking for me and I wasn’t there. The police told me he cut himself after kicking out at glass.”
Patty said she had been in contact with Iain’s family since the accident and they had been very supportive.
She said Iain had previously lost control through drink in Thailand.
She said: “It happened a few times before but it hadn’t happened for a long time.
“He has been drunk and has had problems understanding things, but we have gone home and he has been very apologetic the next day and it has been no big problem.
“Iain was not a violent man but sometimes he could misunderstand things.
“He had a very good heart and I really loved him.”
A police spokeswoman at Hua Hin said Iain bled to death.
The Scot’s parents, William and Chrissie Mackay are well-known among the Free Presbyterian church community on Lewis.
They did not wish to comment yesterday.
A spokesman for Iain’s employers Polarcus in Dubai said: “We helping his family deal with the practicalities that have arisen from this very sad event.”
Try today's quick quiz:

