SCOTLAND’S top legal officer is calling on the public to keep their eyes and ears open to help in the battle against human trafficking.
Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland applauded the ’s campaign to highlight the plight of victims of these crimes and says he wants to make Scotland the worst place for human traffickers to do business.
Mulholland revealed he found the stories of the victims “hugely moving”.
He said: “I’m certainly aware of successful prosecutions of human trafficking in Scotland and I’m well aware of the misery it causes. It will be shocking to the public to learn this. Scotland is not immune from human trafficking.
“My message to the public is – to everyone in Scotland to recognise the signs and if they have a suspicion then report it and it will be investigated.
“It’s to businesses, it’s to employees, to recognise domestic servitude and labour exploitation.
 

“If they see someone or they become aware of someone who may be the victim of human trafficking for sexual exploitation. labour or domestic servitude, please report it to the police or to agencies in the field who help victims.
“We need your help because it’s difficult to detect. It happens in the shadows and under the radar and the public are law enforcement’s eyes and ears.
“I applaud the ’s responsible campaign to raise this as an issue with the public so they are fully aware of what’s happening – sometimes on their doorstep.
“We’ve started to deal with it. It’s a journey, we’re getting better at it. We’re getting a better understanding of it. We need to keep going with as much energy, with the help of the public. It’s not a gold template on how to deal with human trafficking in Scotland. There’s room for improvement. We’ve started, now let’s get better.
“It’s responsible of the  to raise these issues. This is probably the biggest challenge law enforcement has in 2015.
“And it’s important that it is raised and public awareness is heightened so they’re aware of what goes on, often in the shadows of Scotland and elsewhere. It’s important that the public are mobilised to help law enforcement, to recognise signs and identify where people are being trafficked.”
 

Recent convictions have been secured against traffickers in Scotland and Mulholland said it’s important victims are supported.
Shock figures revealed111 potential victims of human trafficking were identified in Scotland last year – including 25 children.
Four of the children were thought to be victims of sexual exploitation.
Mulholland said the global average age of a human &shy;trafficking victim is just 14.
He said: “It blew me over when I saw that and we heard the harrowing stories of children who are victims of human trafficking, who have been &shy;sexualised when they should be enjoying their teenage years.
“That was a wake-up call to me and since then we’ve been working towards improving how we deal with human trafficking.”
He said it was important to get traffickers convicted and support the victims.
Some victims of trafficking may be forced into committing crimes.
Mulholland said that if this is proved to be the case then victims will not face prosecution.
 

He said: “We’re not about prosecuting victims of human trafficking.
“It’s a complex dynamic because of bonds between victims and traffickers.”
Victims are often economically and socially dependent on traffickers who may hold their passports.
Mulholland said: “When it’s brought to our attention that a potential accused is actually a victim of human trafficking and that’s proved, we’ve abandoned prosecutions.
“Sometimes the information only becomes clear after the criminal process.
“We’ve looked at convictions that have arisen.
“We’re looking at three with a view, if it checks out, of setting aside the convictions.”
And he said the problem of trafficking also needs to be tackled by working with other countries.
Mulholland said: “Human trafficking recognises no borders, no jurisdictions, it’s truly global,
“It’s important that law enforcement response to human trafficking is not dealt with in your own jurisdiction, you’ve got to work with other jurisdictions.”
 

THERE are various indicators that point to the possibility of adults and children being victims of trafficking for labour and sexual exploitation.
Organisations use the indicators to help identify potential trafficking victims.
Try our quick news quiz below:

