DOZENS of cards, flowers and football memorabilia have been left outside the home and former high school of Scots war hero who died on holiday.
Devastated well-wishers left the tributes to Shaun Cole outside his mother’s Edinburgh home alongside a signed football shirt from his beloved Hearts FC.
One card left outside the old Tynecastle High School building where Shaun attended read: “Gorgie gonna be a darker place without that cheeky smile. Stand easy Shaun x your duties done.”
Another said: “However long your journey, I’m beside you every step of the way.”

Friends of the 22-year-old planned to meet on Wednesday night for an emotional gathering in memory of their beloved friend.
Pal Jamie Lothian, who was in Miami with Shaun and friend Sean Ward, told of the plans on social media.
He wrote: “Just a wee message to let people know we are meeting at the Iona bar on Easter Road from 8pm onwards to send Shaun our love from down this way (Lochend, Craigentinny, Niddrie and Portobello).
“He touched so many people from all over Edinburgh and just wanting a get together to show how many people life’s he touches down this part of Edinburgh over the years we knew him!
“Would be good if uz could make it along. I will try and stay strong for you brother as I know you wouldn’t want me bottling it all up and beating myself up! Love you brother!#myhero #mylife #mybrother.”
 

 
An overwhelming response meant plans were later forced to change, moving to a bigger venue.
Jamie added: “Guys change of plan due to turnout as Iona won’t be big enough! New Yorker tonight now to raise a toast to my brother sha!! See u all ther xxx”.
Shaun had been on holiday in Miami with pals to attend the Ultra Music Festival.
Investigators in Florida are still unsure whether his death was a tragic accident or something more sinister and say it could be weeks before answers are given.
His parents jetted out to Florida on Tuesday morning.
Shaun was a private with the 1st Battalion The Royal Regiment of Scotland who had completed two tours of Afghanistan.
He recently returned from an Ebola fighting mission in Sierra Leone earlier this year.
