THE hit-and-run heroin addict who mowed down and killed little Sophie Brannan is a former property developer who grew up in a wealthy family, the Record can reveal.
Christopher Hannah, 33, mounted the pavement and smashed into 11-year-old Sophie while high on drugs and driving “like a madman”.
He left her 10-year-old friend, and the friend’s 36-year-old uncle, badly hurt.
Dad-of-three Hannah pled guilty yesterday to a string of charges over the horror, including the culpable homicide of Sophie.
His family once ran a string of property companies from luxury homes on Glasgow’s south side, and he was listed at Companies House in 2007 as a property developer and secretary of the family building firm.
But the family’s empire crashed soon after and his dad Ron was declared bankrupt a year later.
And Hannah was last night facing years behind bars after trying in vain to cheat justice.
He fled after killing Sophie and looked for a place to hide, but his crime was so horrific that no one would shelter him.
Hannah was speeding through Maryhill in Glasgow in a black, hired Vauxhall Astra on the evening of November 14 last year when he lost control at a bend on Sandbank Street.
He mounted the pavement, smashed into the gable end of a building then hit Sophie’s group from behind.
It’s believed the three victims were on their way home from the shops. They were flung on to the bonnet of Hannah’s car and over the windscreen and roof, then to the ground.
Sophie suffered multiple fractures and swelling to her brain and died in hospital hours later.
The other victims, who can’t be named for legal reasons, are still suffering the effects of their injuries.
 

Another driver stopped at the scene to go to Sophie’s aid but Hannah didn’t think of helping. He raced off “erratically” on to nearby Maryhill Road, where he crashed into a taxi.
The cabbie drove after the killer, who stopped nearby. Hannah started pulling at the Astra’s badly damaged bumper, then turned and walked away before breaking into a run.
Both the taxi driver and his passengers thought he was “under the influence of some substance”.
Hannah fled to his girlfriend’s home, where he had been living. She later told police he was in shock.
He told the girlfriend he had hit someone, but did not know who. He then said he was going to a house on the city’s south side, but would return.
Hannah left, but the police were not far behind him.
They learned on the night of the tragedy that the death car had been hired in his name, and went straight to his girlfriend’s house.
A search there revealed tinfoil wraps, signs of Hannah’s heroin use. The girlfriend said she suspected he had taken heroin that day.
While detectives were still in the girlfriend’s house, Hannah phoned her – and she immediately handed the receiver to an officer.
 

Hannah then confessed: “I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to do it.
“It was a total accident. I lost control of the car and I panicked.”
Hannah claimed: “I’m going to hand myself in tonight.”
But instead, the coward ran away. And in the early hours of November 17, he appeared at a house in Glasgow’s Mount Florida and asked the people there to hide him.
Those in the house had no interest in helping Hannah. They rang police, who rushed to the scene.
The killer again tried to run away but was quickly caught. Police found eight grams of heroin in his boxer shorts.
The people in the house later told police that Hannah called them on the night he killed Sophie.
He told them: “There’s been an accident – watch the news. The police have fitted me up.
“I tried to get away and I’ve hit something. I don’t know what.”
Hannah, who conceded that he had driven “like a madman”, at first claimed he may have hit a wheelie bin.
But he later admitted he needed somewhere to stay for a while because he had “killed a wee lassie” and the police were after him.
Hannah pled guilty at the High Court in Glasgow to culpable homicide, dangerous driving, trying to defeat the ends of justice and possessing heroin.
The court heard he had 14 convictions for crimes including weapon possession and multiple driving offences. He was on bail from Glasgow’s Justice of the Peace Court when he killed Sophie.
Sophie’s dad Graham and other relatives were in court to hear Hannah admit his guilt. But her mum Marie, who had been in poor health, died aged 33 five weeks after the tragedy.
Sophie’s loss left the family and their friends and neighbours devastated.
Cousin John McGhee, 20, said at the time: “My wee cousin is a hero – the best, funniest wee cousin you can imagine.
“No words can describe what our family is going through. Nobody will know what it’s like until they’ve lost somebody that age.”
 

Hannah left Sophie’s friend with a serious leg break that will need long-term physiotherapy. She is still in a cast more than four months later.
Prosecutor Allan Nicol told the court that the child “suffers episodes of withdrawal and angry outbursts” and is due to see a psychiatrist to help her come to terms with her injuries and the death of her friend.
Mr Nicol said the 10-year-old’s uncle suffered multiple fractures and needed surgery. He faced “long-term restriction” in the movement of his right shoulder.
Judge Lord Bannatyne remanded Hannah in custody to await sentence at the High Court in Livingston on May 5.
The killer’s counsel, Thomas Ross, told the court: “He has asked to state publicly his apologies for those affected by this terrible tragedy.”
Sophie’s family were too upset to comment after the hearing.
A man at the long-term home of Hannah’s family said his relatives did not want to talk.
