Jailed sex offenders are staying up &quot;all night&quot; watching porn despite prison staff regularly changing TV codes, a former con revealed.
It is understood that inmates have been able to gain access to late-night adult channels like Television X by deciphering PIN number blocks.
The on-going practice has been branded &quot;more than disappointing&quot; by Tory justice spokesperson Margaret Mitchell who has called on the Scottish Government to take action.
It comes after a former prisoner at HM Prison Glenochil revealed that prison staff &quot;gave up&quot; changing codes when the issue first came to light in 2013.
The male source, who spent two years at the jail, said: &quot;They're up all night watching porn on Freeview.
&quot;The reason they're getting away with it is because there is not enough checks on the prisoners by staff members.
&quot;Last time this was in the paper they tried to change codes but it didn't work so the staff don't bother.
&quot;To be honest, it's totally wrong and these are the people that are a danger to women, men and children.
&quot;Being able to watch this stuff in their cell TV makes them more of a risk to the public.
&quot;I am a former prisoner of that jail. It is the worst prison in Scotland since Peterhead shut down as all that happens is people getting groomed by them predators.
&quot;I have been in that jail for two years, there has been so much that has went on that people should know about. It's just a very wrong and bad jail to be in.&quot;
HMP Glenochil's current design capacity is 670 and the prison holds on average a daily population of 660.
It manages adult male offenders who are short term offenders, long term offenders, life sentence offenders and extended sentence offenders.
It is also one of the major sites in Scotland for managing sex offenders and those with an Order of Lifelong Restriction.
The former prisoner revealed inmates have been able to get access to Freeview in their cells by creating aerials from bits of copper wire.
They then access premium channels with paid-for codes supplied by family and friends.
He said staff tried to change the code for the televisions by linking them to computers and deleting the default codes to make new ones.
But by the time the staff had changed the codes, prisoners on the first and second floors had been given the new code by a member of the prison staff.
He said: &quot;How they manage to make the aerials for the TVs is they steal a bit of copper wire for the recycling and hide it in their plastic ID card at the back.
&quot;They put a false back on it so it looks like it's just a normal card.
&quot;They can avoid the metal detector as they got to put their keys and cards down as their keys are usually attached to their cards and walk through it then pick them up.
&quot;That's how they get the copper up to halls and then the guy that has the copper wire sells it to other cons for #4 or a half of tobacco.
&quot;That Freeview should be stopped in jail because they are up all night watching TV X and all free porn channels.&quot;
Scottish Conservative justice spokesperson Margaret Mitchell MSP branded the situation &quot;more than disappointing&quot;.
She said: &quot;We need to make sure that what they are watching on television is monitored.
&quot;If they are sending this via text how exactly are these prisoners getting access to mobile phones?
&quot;Certainly blocking signals would be a big first step in stopping the illegal use of mobile phones.
&quot;I think the Scottish Government has been dragging its feet a little.
&quot;It's more than disappointing. It is not something new that has happened.
&quot;It's quite simple, it is a privilege and you must monitor who gets that privilege.
&quot;In 2013 the same story broke and I and the public would fully expect that the prison authorities and the Scottish Government would take steps to ensure this doesn't happen again.&quot;
A Scottish Prison Service spokeswoman said: &quot;Whilst we have no evidence of this happening we are grateful to you for bringing this to our attention and we will investigate this thoroughly.&quot;
In relation to offenders accessing pornography as part of their treatment, the spokeswoman added: &quot;Offenders may participate in a Healthy Sexual Functioning module but the use of pornography is not part of the treatment strategy.&quot;
Try your hand at our news quiz

