A MUM has pledged to pay back the &pound;107,000 it cost to save her premature baby – as a thank you to the NHS.
Marie Storrar spent 107 days by tiny Eve’s cot after she was born 24 weeks early and weighing just 1lb 8oz.
And the grateful mum, who had been warned by doctors that her daughter would probably not survive, now wants to repay the hospital staff who helped the tot pull through.
After finding out it had cost &pound;1000 a day to give Eve, who is now six, the best care available, Marie is determined to show how much it means to her by refunding every single penny to the NHS.
The 44-year-old, from Edinburgh, has pledged to raise the incredible sum by taking part in fundraising challenges like sponsored runs and cake sales.
Tonight will be her biggest event so far – a fundraising evening at one of Scotland’s top comedy clubs featuring well-known stand-up stars, which she hopes will become an annual event, but the scenes of laughter this evening will strike a stark contrast to the emotions Marie feels when she recounts the day she gave birth 16 weeks early.
She said: “I was asked just before Eve was born if I would want to hold her, because everyone was pretty convinced she would be dead.
“Eve was born with no hope at all. Everyone was sure she’d be stillborn. Even now, I can hardly talk about it without crying.”
Marie, who lives with her husband Ed, 46, was admitted to hospital just 23 weeks into her first pregnancy.
Little Eve held on for a further week while doctors treated her mum with steroids in the hope they might help develop her unborn daughter’s lungs.
 

Marie said: “I had only reached chapter five of the book about pregnancy that I was reading.
“I certainly wasn’t near that chapter about going into labour.
“I hadn’t even got around to telling a lot of people I was pregnant and I didn’t even have much of a bump.”
Eve was born cord first, which occurs in only one in every 300 births. It meant the umbilical cord was at risk of becoming trapped, putting her at risk of brain damage.
She was immediately taken to the intensive care unit for babies.
For the next 107 days and nights Marie and Ed – who run a digital marketing firm – stayed by her side, desperate that she would pull through.
Marie said: “She was so tiny. She was only 695 grams when she was born.
“I’ve seen heavier packets of mince.”
At first Eve couldn’t breathe unaided and staff placed her on a ventilator. She was fed through a small tube and Marie looked on in amazement as nurses inserted cannulas into veins as thin as thread.
To their delight, Marie and Ed were able to take her home on the day she was expected to be born.
Eve is now a happy and healthy pupil at Trinity Primary School.
