
 [reply to zazen@austin.ibm.com (e. h. welbon)]
  
 >>>     there is no means that i can possibly think of to prove beyond doubt
 >>>that a god does not exist (but if anyone has one, by all means, tell me
 >>>what it is).  therefore, lacking this ability of absolute proof, being an
 >>>atheist becomes an act of faith in and of itself, and this i cannot accept.
 >>> i accept nothing on blind faith.
  
 >>invisible pink flying unicorns!  need i say more?
  
 >...i harbor no beliefs at all, there is no good evidence for god
 >existing or not.  some folks call this agnosticism.  it does not suffer
 >from "blind faith" at all.  i think of it as "don't worry, be happy".
  
 for many atheists, the lack of belief in gods is secondary to an
 epistemological consideration:  what do we accept as a reliable way of
 knowing?  there are no known valid logical arguments for the existence
 of gods, nor is there any empirical evidence that they exist.  most
 philosophers and theologians agree that the idea of a god is one that
 must be accepted on faith.  faith is belief without a sound logical
 basis or empirical evidence.  it is a reliable way of knowing?
  
 there is probably nothing else most people would accept in the absence
 of any possibility of proof.  even when we agree to take someone elses
 word "on faith", we just mean that having found this person to be
 reliable in the past, we judge him likely to be a reliable source now.
 if we find faith less reliable than logic and empirical evidence
 everywhere else, why assume it will provide reliable knowledge about
 gods?
  
 the difference between the atheist and the theist is fundamentally then
 one of whether or not faith is held to be a reliable way of knowing,
 rather than, as some agnostic posters would have it, whether ones faith
 is in gods or no gods.  the theist believes that faith is an acceptable
 basis for a belief in gods, even if he rejects faith as reliable at
 other times, for example in his work as a scientist.  the atheist
 believes that only logic and empirical evidence lead to reliable
 knowledge.  agnosticism seems to me a less defensible position than
 theism or atheism, unless one is a sceptic in regards to all other
 knowledge.  without evidence, why should we believe in gods rather than
 santa claus or the easter bunny?
  
 i would also like to point out as others have that the atheist doesn't
 require absolute knowledge of the lack of gods.  i don't believe that
 there is any such thing as absolute knowledge.  atheism is the best and
 simplest theory to fit the (lack of) facts and so should be held until
 contrary evidence is found.
  
 david nye (nyeda@cnsvax.uwec.edu).  midelfort clinic, eau claire wi
 this is patently absurd; but whoever wishes to become a philosopher
 must learn not to be frightened by absurdities. -- bertrand russell
 