
  
 who: kmr4@po.cwru.edu (keith m. ryan)
 what: <kmr4.1426.733987668@po.cwru.edu>
 with: rush@leland.stanford.edu 
 what: <1993apr5.050524.9361@leland.stanford.edu>
  
 >>> other readers: i just joined, but is this guy for real?
 >>> i'm simply amazed.
  
 kr> "sadly yes. don't loose any sleep over old 'zlumber. just
 kr> have some fun with him, but he is basically harmless. 
 kr> at least, if you don't work in ny city."
  
 i don't find it hard to believe that "ole 'zlumber" really believes
 the hate and ignorant prattle he writes. the frightening thought is,
 there are people even worse than he! to say that feminism equals
 "superiority" over men is laughable as long as he doesn't then proceed
 to pick up a rifle and start to shoot women as a preemptive strike---
 aka the canada slaughter that occured a few years ago. but then, men
 killing women is nothing new. islamic fundamentalists just have a
 "better" excuse (qu'ran).
  
     from the vancouver sun, thursday, october 4, 1990
     by john davidson, canadian press
  
     montreal-- perhaps it's the letter to the five-year old
     daughter that shocks the most.
  
     "i hope one day you will be old enough to understand what
     happened to your parents," wrote patrick prevost. "i loved
     your mother with a passion that went as far as hatred."
  
     police found the piece of paper near prevost's body in his
     apartment in northeast montreal.
  
     they say the 39-year-old mechanic committed suicide after
     killing his wife, jocelyne parent, 31.
  
     the couple had been separated for a month and the woman had
     gone to his apartment to talk about getting some more money
     for food. a violent quarrel broke out and prevost attacked
     his wife with a kitchen knife, cutting her throat, police said.
  
     she was only the latest of 13 women slain by a husband or
     lover in quebec in the last five weeks.
  
     five children have also been slain as a result of the same
     domestic "battles."
  
     last year in quebec alone, 29 [women] were slain by their
     husbands. that was more than one-third of such cases across
     canada, according to statistics from the canadian centre for
     justice. [rest of article ommited]
  
 then to say that women are somehow "better" or "should" be the
 one to "stay home" and raise a child is also laughable. women
 have traditionally done hard labor to support a family, often 
 more than men in many cultures, throughout history. seems to me
 it takes at least two adults to raise a child, and that both should
 stay home to do so!
 
 --- maximus 2.01wb
 