
 cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb) writes:
 
 >merely a question for the basis of morality
 
 >moral/ethical behavior = _societally_ _acceptable_ _behavior_.
 
 >1)who is society
 
 society is the collection of individuals which will fall under self-defined
 rules.  in terms of un decisions all the sets of peoples who are represented
 at the un are considered part of that society. if we then look at us federal
 laws provided by representatives of purely us citizens then the society for
 that case would be the citizens of the us and so on.
 
 >2)how do "they" define what is acceptable?
 
 "acceptable" are those behaviours which are either legislated for the
 society by representatives of that society or those behaviours which are
 non-verbally and, in effect, non-consciously, such as picking your nose on
 the oprah winfrey show, no-one does it, but there is no explicit law against
 doing it. in many cases there are is no definition of whether or not a
 behaviour is "acceptable", but one can deduce these behaviours by
 observation.
 
 
 >3)how do we keep from a "whatever is legal is what is "moral" "position?
 
 in an increasingly litigation mad society, this trap is becoming exceedingly
 difficult to avoid. with the infusion and strengthening of ethnic cultures
 in american (and australian, to bring in my local perspective) culture the
 boundaries of acceptable behaviour are ever widening and legislation may
 eventually become the definition of moral behaviour. for instance, some
 cultures' dominant religion call for live sacrifice of domesticated animals.
 most fundamental christians would find this practice abhorrent. however, is
 it moral, according to the multicultural american society? this kind of
 problem may only be definable by legislation. 
 
 obviously within any society there will be differences in opinion in what is
 acceptable behaviour or not, and much of this will be due to different
 environmental circumstances rather than merely different opinions.  
 
 one thing is for sure, there is no universal moral code which will suit all
 cultures in all situations.  there may, however, be some globally accepted
 mores which can be agreed upon and instantiated as a globally enforcable
 concept. the majority of mores will not be common until all peoples upon
 this earth are living in a similar environment (if that ever happens).
 
 jeff 'nonickname' clark.
 
 