
 in article <c5prv8.5ni@news.cso.uiuc.edu> cobb@alexia.lis.uiuc.edu (mike cobb) writes:
 >i'll yield the discussion on absolute morality until i can think of another way
 >to discuss it.  if you're interested in a change, here's an idea.
 
 	do you believe in absolute morality? and do you have absolute
 knowledge? mere mortal you? and if you claim that your god has absolute
 knowledge, then you have have absolute knowledge of that?
 
 	if you read the bible and claim that it is the word of god, and
 in it is contained the absolute moral code you ascribe to, but the prophets,
 no matter how divinely inspired are not gods but mere fallable mortals,
 then how can you be absolutely sure that they having heard the word of
 god, have got it right? also, you read their words in translation which
 invariably introduces errors of nuance and usage, and then how do you
 know that you got the right message? i assert that you do not, and that
 you do not have absolute knowledge of anything, including absolute morals.
 
 	the only way you can assert such things is through appeal to
 prejudice via appeal by force of authority through yourself or a group
 you have aligned yourself to.
 
 >if morals come from what is societally accepted, why follow that? 
 
 	because social pressure is the most powerful force known to
 man. how can you disprove a contention that the richeousness of
 established religion is anything other than social convention? one
 way is to assert that there are moral universals. but that is not
 the same thing as asserting that these universials owe their origen
 to trancendance or the supernatural or to dieties.
 
 >what right do
 >we have to expect others to follow our notion of societally mandated morality?
 
 	we expect empathy from our fellow man. we expect to raise each
 generation with values that we live by, those which assure that mistakes
 we have made are not repeated. do you think that mere authority checks
 all tendancies which are disruptive of civilized life? i think not! in fact
 authority is power, and power corrupts. the most powerful tend to think
 that they are above the law that applies to everybody else. religious
 authority, theocarcy, has not mitigated this any better than other
 power structures on this score and it seems that because there are no
 checks on power concentrated in clergy or nobility that the abuses
 recorded by history are greater.
 
 	we live and teach morals by setting an example, starting in
 the home. this does not come from books or authority figures in
 soceity. if people are weak or confused at the present time it is
 not because the breakup of the family has been precipitated by some
 mysterious moral decidance that redidication to traditional formulas
 will repair. that is but magical and simplistic thinking. we need to
 look at forces in the way we live, even the good things that happen
 in our present culture, that are weakening the family as the primary
 means we have to teach children values. of course people are trying
 to have the community do things that once were done in the family
 alone. this may not be as effective. we need to look at this.
 
 >pardon the extremism, but couldn't i murder your "brother" and say
 > that i was 
 >exercising my rights as i saw them, was doing what felt good, didn't want
 >anyone forcing their morality on me, or i don't follow your "morality" ?
 
 	laying down the law, and with teeth, doesn't stop the crazy
 man from murdering your brother despite the morality or the law. it
 may help you with dealing promptly with him after the fact, but it
 may not be very effective for preventing mental illness or cracy people
 from murduring.
 
 	it is quite interesting how ineffective moral authoritarianism
 is in fact. it may work best in societies that are already sonmewhat
 isolated, that do not experience change, and have long standing
 traditions. in a basic way moral codes decrease the number of decisions
 people have to make everyday. in a real sense thay allow people to not
 have to think. that is ok when things are stable, but it becomes a
 problem when conditions change. this leads me to think that morals are
 not sumething fundemental, at least most of them, recalling that there
 are values all people seem to agree on, but mutate in response to outside
 political, economic, technical, and cultural influiences.
 
 	lately, i have come to regard people who speak like you
 with great suspicion, especially when they include the pharse "for
 the children.". i think that such people are more of an imparative to
 want to  control what others do and think than other more nobil pursuits,
 such as of the truth.
 
 bruce salem
 
 
 