
 as requested, here are some addresses of sources of bizarre religious satire
 and commentary...  plus some bijou book reviewettes.
 
 ---
 
 loompanics unlimited
 po box 1197
 port townsend, wa 98368. usa.
 
 publishers of one of the most infamous mail-order book catalogue in the 
 world.  anarchism, discordianism, libertarianism, cryogenics, money-making
 (legal and illegal), privacy and security, self-defense, and all kinds of
 other stuff that keeps christians awake at nights.
 
 ---
 
 the church of the subgenius
 po box 140306
 dallas, tx 75214. usa.
 
 the original end times church for post-human mutants; a high temple for 
 scoffers, mockers and blasphemers.  be one of the few to board the x-ist 
 saucers in 1998 and escape space god jhvh-1's stark fist of removal.  j.r.
 "bob" dobbs, god of sales, is waiting to take your money and ordain you. 
 magazines, sick audio cassettes, and assorted offensive cynisacreligious 
 material.  periodic lists of addresses of pink religious cults and contact
 points for the world wierdo network.
 
 expect a slow response to mail.  only conspiracies are well-organized.  you
 will eventually get what you pay for if you give them some slack.
 
 ---
 
 counter productions
 po box 556
 london se5 0rl
 uk
 
 a uk source of obscure books.  a wide-ranging selection; surrealism, 
 anarchism, subgenius, discordianism, robert anton wilson, lovecraftian 
 horror, cyberpunk, forteana, political and social commentary, wilhelm reich,
 orgone tech, obscure rock music, sf, and so on.  send an sae (and maybe a
 bribe, they need your money) and ask for a catalogue.  tell them mathew sent
 you.  i've ordered from these folks three or four times now, and they're
 about as fast and efficient as you can expect from this sort of operation.
 
 ---
 
 forbidden planet
 various sites in the uk; in particular, along london's new oxford street, just 
 down the road from tottenham court road tube station.
 
 mass market oddness.  subgenius, robert anton wilson, loompanics, and of 
 course huge quantities of sf.  not a terribly good selection, but they're in
 the high street.
 
 ---
 
 reviewette: "loompanics' greatest hits"
 isbn 1-55950-031-x (loompanics)
 
 a selection of articles picked from the books in loompanics' catalogue.  
 subjects include:
 
  * christian dispensationalism -- how right-wing christians encouraged 
    the cold war
  * satanic child abuse myths
  * religion and censorship
  
 plus lots of anarchist and libertarian stuff, situationism, computers and 
 privacy, and so on.  guaranteed to contain at least one article that'll 
 offend you -- like, for example, the interview with bradley r. smith, the 
 holocaust revisionist.  a good sampling of stuff in a coffee table book.  (of
 course, whether you want to leave this sort of stuff lying around on your
 coffee table is another matter.)
 
 quote:
 
 "the fundamentalists leap up and down in apoplectic rage and joy.  their 
 worst fantasies are vindicated, and therefore (or so they like to think), 
 their entire theology and socio-political agenda is too.  meanwhile, teen-age
 misanthropes and social misfits murder their enemies, classmates, families,
 friends, even complete strangers, all because they read one of anton lavey's
 cooks or listened to one too many ac/dc records.  the born-agains are ready
 to burn again, and not just books this time."
 
 ---
 
 reviewette: "the book of the subgenius", j.r. dobbs & the subgenius foundation
 isbn 0-671-63810-6 (simon & schuster)
 
 described by 'rolling stone' as "a sick masterpiece for those who can still
 laugh at the fact that nothing is funny anymore."  the official bible of the
 subgenius church, containing the sacred teachings of j.r. "bob" dobbs. 
 instant answers to everything; causes catalytic brain cell loss in seconds;
 the secret of total slack; how to relax in the safety of your delusions and
 pull the wool over your own eyes; nuclear doom and other things to laugh at.
 
 quote:
 
 "he has been known to answer questions concerning universal truths with 
 screams.  with suggestive silence.  by peeing down his pants leg.  his most
 famous sermon was of cosmic simplicity: "bob" standing on the stage with his
 hands in his pockets, smoking, looking around and saying nothing.  heated
 arguments still rage among the monks, often erupting into fatal duels, as
 towhether the master consulted his wristwatch during this divine period of
 grace."
 
 --
 
 reviewette: "high weirdness by mail", rev. ivan stang
 isbn 0-671-64260-x (simon & schuster)
 
 an encyclopedia of wierd organizations you can contact by mail.  space 
 jesuses, christian vs christian, ufo contactees, new age saps, creationists,
 flat earthers, white supremacist churches, plus (yawn) csicop, sceptical
 enquirer and stuff like that.  not just a list of addresses, though, as each
 kook group is ruthlessly mocked and ridiculed with sarcastic glee.  if you
 like alt.atheism's flame wars, this is the book for you.  made me laugh until
 my stomach ached.  revised edition due some time in the next year or two.
 
 sample entry:
 
    entertaining demons unawares
    southwest radio church
    po box 1144
    oklahoma city, ok 73101
 
    "your watchman on the wall."  another flagellating, genuflecting 
    fundamentalist outfit.  their booklet "entertaining demons unawares"
    exposes the star wars / e.t. / dungeons & dragons / saturday morning
    cartoon / satanic connection in horrifying detail.  left out smurfs,
    though! i especially liked the bit about wonder woman's antichrist origins.
    keep in mind that once you send for anything from these people, you'll be
    on their mailing list for life.
 
 ---
 
 reviewette: "the abolition of work", bob black
 isbn 0-915179-41-5 (loompanics)
 
 a selection of bob black's painfully witty and intelligent anarchist tracts
 collected into book form.  if i were this good i'd be insufferable.(*) 
 probably the only thought-provoking political book that's fun to read.
 
 quote:
 
 "babble about 'the wages of sin' serves to cover up 'the sin of wages'.  we
 want rights, not rites -- sex, not sects.  only eros and eris belong in our
 pantheon.  surely the nazarene necrophile has had his revenge by now. 
 remember, pain is just god's way of hurting you."
 
 ---
 
 reviewette: "principia discordia", malaclypse the younger
 isbn 1-55950-040-9 (loompanics)
 
 the infamous discordian bible, reprinted in its entirety and then some.  yes,
 you could ftp the online copy, but this one has all the pictures.  explains
 absolutely everything, including the law of fives, how to start a discordian
 cabal, and instructions for preaching discordianism to christians. 
 
 quote:
 
 "a discordian is required during his early illumination to go off alone & 
 partake joyously of a hot dog on a friday; this devotive caremony to 
 remonstrate against the popular paganisms of the day: of catholic christendom
 (no meat on friday), of judaism (no meat of pork), of hindic peoples (no meat
 of beef), of buddhists (no meat of animal), and of discordians (no hot dog
 buns)."
 
 ---
 
 reviewette: "natural law, or don't put a rubber on your willy",
             robert anton wilson
 isbn 0-915179-61-x (loompanics)
 
 the author of the illuminatus trilogy rails against natural law, natural 
 morality, objective reality, and other pervasive myths.  witty and 
 thought-provoking work from someone who actually seems to know an argument
 from a hole in the ground.
 
 quote:
 
 "since theological propositions are scientifically meaningless, those of us
 of pragmatic disposition simply won't buy such dubious merchandise. [...] 
 maybe -- remotely -- there might be something in such promotions, as there
 might be something in the talking dogs and the stocks in arabian tapioca
 mines that w.c. fields once sold in his comedies, but we suspect that we
 recognize a con game in operation.  at least, we want to hear the dog talk or
 see the tapioca ore before we buy into such deals."
 
 ---
 
 all of the books mentioned above should be available from counter productions
 in the uk, or directly from the subgenius foundation or loompanics unlimited.
 
 
 mathew
 [ (*) what do you mean i am anyway? ]
 -- 
 "dreamed i laid a toaster...  daddy caught me in the act.  can you take it?"
  -- devo
 
 