
 in article <1993apr16.013145.8770@princeton.edu> roger@astro.princeton.edu (roger lustig) writes:
 >
 >right.  so who cares which player gets credited, as long as the team
 >gets more runs?  if a player helps the team get more r and rbi, but 
 >doesn't score them all himself, who cares?
 
 amusing, isn't it?  seems only the sdcns realize how much baseball is
 a *team* game, combining efforts from every player for the win.
 
 consider the red sox game last night.  the sox won 4-3 in the bottom
 of the 13th.  who won the game?
 
 -clemens pitched a strong nine (?) innings, allowing only two runs.
 -ryan pitched a couple shutout innings, though he needed some excellent
  defensive plays behind him to do so.
 -quantrill pitched a couple of innings, gave up the go-ahead run, and
  got credited with the win when the sox scored two in the bottom of
  the inning.
 
 looks like a team effort to me!  yet only quantrill got credit for
 the win.
 
 how about the offense?
 -dawson and vaughn hit (i think) hrs early in the game.  without either
  one, the sox would have lost in nine.
 -quintana led off the 13th with a solid single.
 -zupcic pinch-ran for quintana, providing the speed to go from first
  to third when...
 -cooper ripped a *second* single in the inning.
 -melvin avoided the dp, getting the run home with a sac fly.  not much of
  a help, but it was something.
 -scrub richardson then hit a double, scoring the speedy cooper all the
  way from first!  (hill's lack of defense helped.)
 
 cooper and zupcic were credited with runs, melvin and richardson were
 credited with rbis.  but it seems to me that it was quintana's hit
 that set up the whole inning!  and did melvin really contribute as
 much as richardson?
 
 furthermore, people seem to consider rbis to be more significant than
 runs.  did melvin contribute more than cooper?  cooper provided the
 game-winning baserunner, and moved the tying run to third base with
 only one out!
 
 assigning credit based on runs and rbis is clearly ridiculous.  you
 can argue that obp and slg don't show you who came through in the
 clutch, but r&rbi don't do any better.  at least obp and slg don't
 *claim* to try to tell you that.
 
 here's to the red sox who contributed to last night's victory.
 all 20 of them!
 
 -valentine
 