A SPECIALIST unit set up to target Scotland’s worst domestic violence thugs yesterday revealed 39 serial offenders were caged for a total of 229 years in just 12 months.
The National Domestic Abuse Task Force concentrated on serial offenders and “high risk perpetrators”.
The unit heard evidence from 283 victims who had suffered at the hands of abusive partners.
And more than 100 children were identified as having suffered – directly or indirectly – as a result of violence inflicted by the 39 men.

To date, 35 have already been jailed on charges including multiple rape and serious assault – with six receiving Orders for Lifelong Restriction, similar to being jailed for life.
Police say every woman they help escape from a violent partner is potentially a life saved.
Detective Chief Inspector Samantha McCluskey, who leads the unit, said: “It might sound a bit idealistic, but the thinking behind it was to prevent domestic homicide.
“Our aim is to target those who present the greatest risk of harm to victims, their families and their communities.
“These guys generally have multiple victims. They will have impacted on lots of adult victims and children and sometimes their extended families.
“By getting these men locked up and seeing them sentenced, their victims are finally safe.
“And it is not only past victims who are safe, but future victims that those men would have gone on to target.”
McCluskey says the creation of the national task force was led by Chief Constable Sir Stephen House after Police Scotland was set up in April 2013.
While uniformed officers and divisional units still deal with cases of domestic abuse within communities, they flag up suspected repeat offenders and the most violent attacks to the national task force.
A team of 50 officers based across the country then launch a painstaking investigation into their target in an attempt to find former partners, often dating back many years.
Whether or not a former partner reports any abuse, they are offered the support of other agencies who work closely with the police, including Rape Crisis Scotland and Scottish Women’s Aid.
But if they are willing to report any abuse, then it makes the case against their alleged abuser much stronger.
McCluskey said: “In court, it can be easy to discredit one victim. But when you have got four or five people all saying the same thing then it becomes very difficult to discredit them.”
 

Unlike many other criminals, domestic abusers often commit no other type of crime and are unknown to the police until they receive a call from a desperate partner, a worried family member or even a neighbour who has overheard an attack.
McCluskey said: “Without the task force approach a lot of these individuals would still be on the streets and would still be abusing victims because they don’t necessarily come to police attention for other criminality.
“They fly under the radar for years and years and it is only by pro-actively going out and offering victims the opportunity to engage with us that we are building such strong cases.
“These guys often target really vulnerable people who they feel will never speak up against them and they move on from person to person.
“Sometimes they move from area to area and in days gone by we wouldn’t necessarily have been able to track them.
“But now with a single police service and a national task force we are able to share information and identify those individuals.”
McCluskey says domestic violence is one of the most common crimes in Scotland.
And while attitudes towards such assaults have changed dramatically in recent years, she would like to see them evolve further.

She said: “Domestic violence is a massive problem. Around 20 per cent of all police time is spent tackling it – we receive one call every eight or nine minutes – and we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg.
“How domestic abuse gets dealt with in Police Scotland is vastly different to how it was dealt with years ago.
“People used to put the word ‘domestic’ in front of a crime and seem to think it cancelled out the crime.
“Now we tell our officers to investigate the way they would any other crime.
“Because you use the word ‘domestic’ doesn’t mean you haven’t been abused or sexually assaulted. Years ago we were managing domestic abuse instead of really tackling it but now we are seeing these violent perpetrators being locked up with lengthy sentences.”
“Domestic abuse is not a ‘behind closed doors’ private issue – it is a serious crime.”
Police Scotland say they work closely with their community partners to ensure every victim receives counselling and support.
McCluskey said: “Our officers are well aware of what the impact might be on a victim of chapping their door out of the blue.
“Our team do a very difficult job – engaging with the victims and listening to their very harrowing stories.
“In the vast majority of cases the reaction we get is, ‘I would never have reported this myself if you hadn’t come to my door.’
“Not all victims want to talk to us, but we always offer them the opportunity to engage with support services and say they can come back to us at any point’.
“At the end of the day the easiest way to keep a victim, their family and their children safe is to remove the risk.
“If these perpetrators are successfully convicted at court and are locked up, then you are removing the risk.”
 

As Karen Nicholson looks back on the abuse she suffered at the hands of Allan Johnstone she says it is not the physicalviolence that haunts her – but the mental torture.
Mum-of-four Karen, 48, dated Johnstone, 50, for just a matter of weeks before deciding she wanted nothing to do with him.
But serial rapist Johnstone had other ideas.
He kicked in her door before holding her hostage in her own home – raping and abusing her.
He forced her to strip before making her crawl on the floor licking up the contents of an ashtray he emptied on the carpet.
Karen managed to escape and went to the police for help but was shocked to be told there was little they could do.
Then, more than 10 years on, officers from the National Domestic Abuse Task Force knocked on her door.
With Karen’s help they put together a case against Johnstone involving six women he had raped, assaulted and abducted over a 20-year period.
Last November he was found guilty of 25 charges including eight rapes and later jailed for 20 years.
He will be supervised for a further 10 years after his release, and will be kept on the sex offenders register indefinitely. The court heard Johnstone was a violent bully who “got off” humiliating his victims and forcing them to carry out depraved acts.
He beat one woman with a poker because she took too long to make him a sandwich and he locked one victim in a porch and forced her to lap milk from a dog’s bowl.
Karen says she is finally coming to terms with the brutality she suffered at Johnstone’s hands
She has bravely given up her right to anonymity to encourage more victims of domestic violence to go to the police.
Karen, of Dundee, said: “When I first went to the police all those years ago attitudes towards domestic violence were very different, and the law was different too.
“As soon as I broke things off with Allan Johnstone he started stalking me, but everything was my word against his.
“Then in the first week of January 2014 an officer from the domestic abuse task force came to my door.
“They knew I had reported him years before and they wanted me to give them a statement about what had happened.”
Karen admits the shock of being asked to speak about her ordeal had initially been traumatic but she would encourage any woman who has suffered at the hands of a violent partner to do the same.
She said: “Apart from reporting what happened to the police all those years ago, I didn’t tell anyone else, not even my family.
“I couldn’t speak about it. It was just too horrific.
“Although Allan raped me, it was other things he did that I have found the hardest to come to terms with.
“On the night he held me hostage everything he said was said in a calm voice – and that made things more terrifying.
“He said he was going to kill me as he had always wanted to know how it would feel to watch someone die.”
Karen, who escaped from Johnstone with the help of Women’s Aid, added: “I knew nothing about the other women he attacked, but I know he did similar things to them that he did to me.
“If my case against Allan had gone to court all those years ago, he might have got a few months in jail.
“But bringing our cases together he has been given 20 years.
“I know it’s not easy, but my advice to any woman with an abusive partner is tell someone and go the police. These men need to be in jail.
“It is the only way to stop the abuse.”
 

One of Scotland’s top policemen yesterday warned domestic violence thugs: You have no place to hide.
Chief Superintendent Barry McEwan says every police officer in Scotland has a big role in tackling domestic violence.
He added: “Each of our 14 local policing divisions have a domestic abuse investigation unit. And every police officer in Scotland has a role to play in tackling these crimes.
“We want offenders to know we will look for them, we will find them and we will deal with them. They need to realise there is no place to hide.”
The Domestic Abuse Task Force is an elite unit of investigators who tackle domestic abuse in the same way that detectives would investigate a murder.
Anne Marie Hicks, who co-ordinates the prosecution service’s response to domestic abuse cases from across Scotland, has praised the task force.
She said: “Their pro-active approach is achieving great results and we are seeing really dangerous perpetrators being convicted.”

