 POLICE investigating a jeweller’s murder have arrested a man in connection with the case. 
Officers hunting the killer of Alan Gardner, who was found dead at his rural home on Thursday, arrested the 30-year-old on Sunday.
The suspect was charged in connection with the disappearance of 49-year-old Alan’s car and is due to appear in court on Monday.
 The  revealed on Saturday how a lodger who lived with the victim mysteriously vanished but Police Scotland would not confirm whether this is the same man arrested in yesterday’s operation. 
Alan’s car – a blue Toyota Rav4 – originally disappeared from his house in Balbeggie, near Scone Airport, but was later found abandoned in Perth city centre.
Locals in the tiny village told yesterday how Alan’s &pound;110,000 home was locked from the outside and entry had to be forced. His body was discovered in his bedroom.
One man, who did not want to be named, said Alan repaired jewellery in a workshop in his  back garden.
He said: “Alan was a quiet guy who made and repaired jewellery and he had some pretty valuable stuff lying about. We heard he was found in bed and that the house was locked up from the outside.
“He kept himself to himself but did have a foreign man lodging with him. He was younger and was eastern European, possibly from Romania or Bulgaria.”
Originally from Airdrie, Alan moved to the house with his wife Jennifer about eight years ago. They had a daughter but they separated in 2013.
Last night, a police spokeswoman said: “Mr Gardner’s blue Toyota Rav, which was initially unaccounted for, was located on Friday night in Perth, following a police appeal. 
“We can now confirm that a 30 year old man has been arrested and charged in connection with the disappearance of Mr Gardner’s motor car and is expected to appear at Perth Sheriff Court on Monday. 
“The enquiry into the circumstances surrounding Mr Gardner’s death is currently ongoing and his death is still being treated as suspicious at this time.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

