CLAIRE EDKINS ordered an energy-efficient heating system for her renovated Victorian property.
The antiquated oil-fired system had to go – and be replaced with a new biomass wood pellet boiler and radiators costing &pound;25,000.
But after she paid a &pound;15,250 deposit, the installation firm, McComish Ltd, went to ground.
Claire, 37, said: “I am furious. McComish have done nothing for the money. They can’t be allowed to get away with this.”
She and partner Stuart McIntosh, 41, signed up with the firm, based in Bellshill, Lanarkshire, in February.
Spa manager Claire said: “They sent out a salesman and we paid &pound;250 for an energy assessment.”
The couple, of Tarbolton, Ayrshire, paid a further &pound;15,000 via credit and debit card.
Claire said: “The owner, Paul McComish, said he couldn’t order parts for our system until he had at least that amount up front.
“We had no other option but to take out a bank loan as we were desperate – our old boiler had packed in.”
 
McComish told the couple they would be eligible for a &pound;10,000 government grant.
 

Claire said: “The plan was to pay &pound;10,000 off the loan once the grant came through. But we discovered we wouldn’t have qualified anyway as McComish were not registered with the governing bodies they said they were.”
The installation was delayed and alarm bells started to ring when Claire found out that McComish had ordered 10 boilers from a supplier but had not paid them.
She said: “Our system was supposed to be installed by the last week of March at the latest but that came and went.”
She contacted a lawyer who wrote to McComish to cancel and demand a refund within seven days.
But she and Stuart, a special needs teacher, called me in when there was still no sign of it weeks later.
Claire said: “I know we are not alone in being stung by this lot.”
Paul McComish is a director of McComish Ltd and McComish Property Ltd. But he has previously been involved in four dissolved companies.
I got on to McComish who said the business was being wound up by the taxman.
He added: “Despite attempts to negotiate with HMRC, the winding up goes ahead.
“There was an agreement in place due to a bad debt of many hundreds of thousandsof pounds.
“I am the biggest creditor and I and my family have been seriously affected by this situation.
“I am very sorry your readers have been impacted. If there is a way to compensate them in future, I will try my best.”
The good news is that RBS have already refunded the &pound;1000 deposit Claire paid by credit card – and are trying to claw back the rest.
The couple’s heating was finally installed last week after they paid &pound;10,000 to another firm.

