A TERMINAL cancer patient had his fundraiasing auction blocked by eBay amid fears he was a ticket tout.
Mark Allison was told last November he had pancreatic cancer and given just six months to live.
The 47-year-old decided to he wanted to raise cash for charity before he died. He’s hoping to top &pound;30,000 within the next few weeks.
Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund lost out on a windfall after eBay bosses said Mark’s auction breached strict resale rules.
He wanted to auction off two seats for last Wednesday’s WWE Live show at Glasgow’s Hydro, including a DVD package and once in a lifetime chance to meet one of the stars.
The VIP package had attracted bids of over &pound;1000.
WWE organisers claim the auction was rubber-stamped before it went online. They say eBay advisor even helped set it up.
But eBay blocked the fundraiser less than 24 hours before it was due to end as two fans were battling it out for the tickets.
Mark, from Airdrie , said: “The whole thing has really annoyed me. It’s disgraceful.
 

“The company who organised it all for me cleared it with eBay in advance of the auction going up - it was all done above board.
“The principal is equally as important as the cash lost to the Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund.
“For a global service provider to agree in advance to the format and principle then pull the plug on Easter Weekend, which left no opportunity to reschedule, is quite frankly wrong.
  
“A huge amount of effort and goodwill was put in place by lots of people to make it a wonderful event that both children and charity would have benefited from, but the end result is we are made to feel like ticket touts, and in effect, criminals.”
Despite being originally told he only had six months left to live, Mark has been receiving pioneering chemotherapy treatment that he hopes will allow him to live for longer.
He hopes his F*** Cancer campaign will smash the &pound;30,000 he originally hoped it would raise. So far it’s reached &pound;24,000.
He said: “The chemotherapy is to last longer than the initial life expectancy I was given, so it should give me a considerable life extension - fingers crossed.
&quot;My dad has cancer and passed away last year, so I'm determined to fight it.
“It’s all about positivity, I want to stay positive, that’s why I started up the fundraising campaign.
“The fundraising has been a community thing, everyone is getting involved.
 

“You can accept a terminal diagnosis, or you can fight it.
“I’m absolutely going to fight it with every fibre of my body.”
A spokesman for WWE, said: “We’re hugely disappointed that at the 11th hour, eBay pulled the plug on an auction to raise money for the Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund on the grounds it broke ticket resale rules.
“The charity has now lost out on over &pound;1000 of valuable funding and two WWE fans missed out on a once-in-a-lifetime evening.
“It’s a petty, mean-spirited and uncharitable decision to make.”
Yesterday eBay said they’d donate &pound;1000 to the Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund following the mix-up.
A spokesman said: “As a gesture of goodwill, we will offer to make a donation of &pound;1000 to the Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund and also to offer to list the charity as a suggested ‘Donate at Checkout’ charity for eBay’s 19 million UK customers.”
Try our quick news quiz below:
 
