AROUND 250 anti-nuclear protestors have blockaded Faslane naval base on the Clyde.
All entrances to the facility, home to the UK’s Trident submarines, are now blocked while police have arrested 36 activists at the site.
The demo is part of the Scrap Trident campaign, which urges voters to back only those candidates who firmly reject the plan to update the nuclear missile system.
Those blocking the gates include people from all over the UK and beyond as well as politicians such as Green MSP Patrick Harvie.
Harvie said: &quot;Trident is an obscenity. Through direct action and through the ballot box we can make the case for the UK to play a new role on the world stage.
&quot;By choosing to disarm Trident we can re-skill workers on the Clyde to provide defence of the strategically important northern seas, and diversify our economy for social good.&quot;
Sheila MacKay, 64, a retired community worker from Portobello, said: “We don’t have a right to hold the threat of nuclear war over the world – there’s no place that would be immune to the devastation. And the poor would be affected first.”

Anna Goeransson and Petter Joelson from Gothenburg added: “We’re from Sweden and that’s where the biggest military exercise is held this year (ACE, Arctic Challenge Exercise). We’re worried about the growing militarisation in Europe.
&quot;Also, the governments should spend money on fighting unemployment and poverty and not on nuclear weapons.”
A Scrap Trident spokesperson said: “We are delighted that in spite of a big police presence that people have been able to peacefully and imaginatively shut down the WMD base, putting their bodies on the line in their utter rejection of what Trident represents.”
A Faslane spokesman said: &quot;The Ministry of Defence recognises the democratic right of individuals to participate in lawful and peaceful protest activities.
&quot;The MoD police and Police Scotland are seeking to facilitate safe and peaceful protest activity but any breaches of criminal law will be dealt with in an appropriate manner.&quot;
The spokesman added that the operation of the base is not being affected by the protest activity as the MoD have contingency plans in place.
The demonstration comes as a number of celebrities sign an open letter calling for the scrapping of the Trident nuclear programme.

