A rape victim has revealed how a footballer fighting back to fitness helped inspire her recovery from the traumatic attack.
Emma Townley had seen Partick Thistle star Dan Seaborne being badly beaten in a street assault just hours before she was targeted.
The Jags defender, who was playing for Southampton at the time, was on a life support machine for 10 days after an incident outside a nightclub in the English city left him with blood clots in his brain and a fractured skull.
Emma witnessed the horrific aftermath and saw Dan, 28, being treated by paramedics before she was raped in an unrelated incident just hours later.
The 27-year-old says tracking the footballer’s recovery helped her contact police and put her life back together. And she has revealed the incredible bond the pair now share.
Emma said: “What we went through that night was horrific. We’re just lucky to be able to have that bond. I think it’s really rare that people get that opportunity.
“I think the story’s probably something you would expect to see in a film, not something to happen in real life. It’s been amazing.”
Emma was initially too terrified to report the attack in September 2011 but followed Dan’s painful recovery and saw parallels with her own anguish.
She finally found the strength to confide in friends who persuaded her to report the attack to police.
A trip to see Dan play for Southampton provided another turning point. The Saturday before her attacker’s trial was due to begin also marked Dan’s comeback match at St Mary’s Stadium.
Emma said: “I just found it weird because I was there when his attack happened and then saw it on the news the next morning. I just felt like I needed to check on him, even though I didn’t know him.
“I had never even been to a football game before. It was the first time Dan had played since the attack and it just clicked together from there.
“The football was therapy and was a great way of letting out all my anger, shouting on the terraces with the other fans.
 

“The next match I went to, he signed a shirt I had brought with his name on it. He seemed quite shocked because I don’t think many people had shirts with his name so I carried on following his journey.”
Emma’s attacker was sentenced to six years in prison. Her friend and football fan, Mat Guy, wrote a letter to Dan explaining how he had inspired her.
She said: “Mat told Dan how he had been a kind of therapy for me and we didn’t expect anything from it. But then Dan called and said he’d like to meet up. It was surreal and crazy but amazing.
“I didn’t really say much because I was starstruck and just sat there smiling. We’ve been in contact ever since.”
Emma followed Dan’s career as he moved from Southampton to Bournemouth and Coventry City.
She even travelled to Glasgow to watch him play after he signed for Thistle in August last year.
Emma, who is training to be a therapist, added: “He was getting us free tickets to come and it’s also just simple things like sending texts to each other to say Merry Christmas.
“I asked him for a signed shirt for Mat’s birthday and when it arrived it had been signed by the whole Thistle team. Partick Thistle have two new supporters.
“It’s really comforting but hard to explain. We both know what happened to each other and we’re both aware that we’ve come out the other side of it.”
Dan, who’s recovering from keyhole surgery on his ankle, said: “Emma and I will always be friends. I read the letter and it was an unbelievable story and a massive coincidence that something happened to us both that night.
“When I got to know her, she confided in me and I tried to help her and bring her out of her character because she was really shaken up.
“I’ve seen her over the last couple of years become outgoing and bubbly and back to what her friends tell me is more like her normal self.”
Dan says he too struggled to get back to where he was before. He added: “I think Emma coaxed me along too. Helping her through her experiences helped shed light on my own. It was a tough process but I’ve come out the other side probably stronger, albeit a bit older, and it’s helped me as a person as well. I like to help and support others.
“I’m really settled in Glasgow and love the city and the people. It’s rekindled my love of football.”

