Rachel Thomson is hoping her producing skills are the only ones she’ll have to apply to best friend Kelly Johnston as the talented pair get set for another Glasgow Music Theatre show.
The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas hits Websters Theatre this weekend, with Cambuslang girl Rachel (24) producing and Burnside’s Kelly (24) taking up a lead role in the cast.
The duo have been part of many Glasgow Music Theatre (GMT) musicals over the years, stretching back to West Side Story in 2011 - their first show together.
Thankfully there’s not been many occasions where Rachel, a doctor by day, has had to use her medical skills during rehearsals. However, the few instances she has have involved fellow Cathkin High pupil Kelly.
Rachel explained: “During West Side Story she had a huge asthma attack following one of the dance numbers during show week, and then during A Chorus Line I had to drive her to the hospital after a performance and it turned out she had kidney stones! I’d say she’s probably been the most prolific user of my somewhat limited medical talents, as they were then!”
 

Even without any health scares, they both agree that this show is one of the their most interesting and exciting projects to date. The risqu&eacute; musical comedy tells the story of a well-to-do brothel, accepted by its small-town community until it becomes the target of a flamboyant TV crusader. The 1982 film adaptation, starring Dolly Parton, Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise, secured The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas as a firm favourite amongst musical theatre audiences for decades.
Inspired by the real-life Chicken Ranch brothel in La Grange, Texas, The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas is written by Larry L. King and Peter Masterson, with music and lyrics by Carol Hall, and direction by independent filmmaker Alasdair MacRae.
Kelly, who is manager at Dance Glasgow, plays Annamerle Seltzer - a fledgling prostitute nicknamed Shy.
The former Cathkin High pupil is no stranger to the stage, having played leading lady in GMT’s production of How To Succeed in Business Without Really Trying as well as roles in Flashdance and A Chorus Line.
However taking on the role of Annemerle might just be her favourite part yet.
Annemerle or ‘Shy’, is na&iuml;ve and, as her nickname suggests, withdrawn. However she’s also headstrong and there’s a darker side to the character which has set this apart from other roles Kelly has tackled: “Miss Mona, the head of the whorehouse, gives her the nickname Shy. She’s new to everything and kind of ditsy, she’s a bit like Dorothy in the Wizard of Oz. There’s that, but there’s a darker side to playing her as well - she leaves home because she’s being abused by her dad. It’s challenging and a great part to play.
“In past shows I’ve tended to play the sexy Latin type, but when I first got in to acting, I wanted to play darker roles, so this is kind of me going back to my roots.”
Rachel has also starred in the cast of many GMT shows, including Into the Woods, A Chorus Line and Merrily We Role Along. She took on the role of assistant director in How To Succeed in Business Without Really Trying and has also produced Threepenny Opera. Although she loves preforming, being on the production team allows Rachel to be involved despite her hectic work schedule: “It’s easier to fit in with my schedule - especially producing, which is much less of a time commitment - and I do really enjoy it. I think that might just be partly because it gives me an outlet for my OCD organisational skills that isn’t work! I really do miss performing though, and I’m excited at the prospect of getting back on the bandwagon at some point when my shifts are less chaotic.”
And both ladies are convinced that even if you’re not an avid musical theatre fan, this is a show anyone will be able to enjoy.
Rachel said: “It’s unusual to have a musical that is in one particular style, in this case country, and I’m actually finding that surprisingly fun to work with. In particular it means that our musicians can really be tailored to that style: they sound like a proper honkey-tonk band!”
Kelly added: “The cast in the show in phenomenal. I think with this show there’s more a story. It can get quite emotional and you feel like you really get to know the characters. I think everyone who goes to see it will enjoy it.”
The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas comes to Glasgow’s Websters Theatre on Tuesday, May 5 to Saturday, May 9. Tickets for all performances are &pound;15 / &pound;12. Phone 0141 357 4000 or visit www.cottiers.com/events.
