A PENSIONER in Glasgow has bet a whopping &pound;30,000 on the Tories winning a majority on May 7.
Long odds mean that the “well-groomed, wealthy and well-informed” punter stands to win &pound;240,000.
The man – thought to be a retired accountant in his 70s – placed the bet at Ladbrokes near Glasgow Central Station after he was offered odds of 7-1.
Staff said the customer walked into the shop on Hope Street to enquire about the odds of David Cameron’s party forming a majority government.
He then pulled &pound;30,000 from his inside jacket pocket in &pound;50 notes to place the wager.
One cashier described the dapper political punter as someone who “looked like he knew what he was doing”.
The cashier added: “He seemed very confident and calm considering the money at stake – he just thought it was a great bet.”
It’s thought the OAP worked in Bothwell Street until retirement.
On Wednesday, bookies predicted that the SNP would smash through the one million votes barrier and win by a landslide in Scotland.
 
Alex Donohue of Ladbrokes said: “Downtown Glasgow is the last place you’d expect to find a punter prepared to have a record-breaking bet on the Tories. “It’s fair to say Cameron and co have been handed a vote of confidence from one of the unlikeliest locations and should they defy the odds, our customer will land a significant windfall.”
Following the punt – the biggest majority bet placed to date – the bookies have cut the odds of a majority Conservative government to 6-1.
The odds of neither party forming a majority have drifted to 1-8
The Tories are currently favourites to win the most seat next week at 1-4, with Labour in second place at 3-1, according to Ladbrokes.
David Cameron’s party are also 1-5 to win the most votes on May 7.
 

Ladbrokes are also offering odds on who will form the next government, with a Labour minority the current favourites at 13-8.
That is followed by another Con-Dem coalition at 7-2 and Conservative minority at 4-1.
A Labour-Lib Dems partnership is listed at 8-1, with a Labour-SNP coalition trailing at 10-1.
A Tory coalition with UKIP is a rank outsider at 33-1 – the same odds as a deal between Cameron and Labour.


