A MAJORITY of Scots want Nicola Sturgeon to rule out another snap referendum, a poll has revealed.
The same proportion of voters – 51 per cent – who plan to cast their general election vote for the SNP don’t want another vote on Scotland’s future to appear in the party’s Holyrood manifesto next year.
The Survation poll for the  also reveals 32 per cent of Scots want to see Sturgeon pledge another vote on independence and 17 per cent are undecided.
The First Minister has refused to categorically rule out another vote despite pledging last September’s referendum was a “once in a generation event”.
Labour have attempted to seize on that as proof the SNP are secretly planning another in the near future.
Survation

But Sturgeon says there would need to be a “fairly substantial” change of circumstances, such as a vote in favour of the UK leaving the EU, for it to happen.
Unsurprisingly, SNP voters are most supportive of the idea of another referendum (54 per cent) but even among them, 33 per cent are opposed.
Tory supporters are most resistant to another referendum, with 91 per cent saying Sturgeon should rule it out. Two thirds of Labour voters (67 per cent) agree.

Earlier this week, Labour published an analysis of internal SNP candidate statements, as well as the speeches and social media accounts of leading candidates, that they say show many have talked up the chances of another referendum in the next few years.
Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy said last night: “The majority of Scots don’t want another divisive referendum, but it’s clear that’s what the SNP are planning by refusing to rule one out.
“When so many are on exploitative zero-hours contracts and when some working families need to rely on food banks, Labour’s priority will be tackling inequality – not another referendum.
“The choice for Scots next week is clear – a Labour government that will take us down the road to a fairer nation for working class Scots or the road to another referendum with the SNP.
“A vote for the SNP risks the Tories being the largest party across the UK and David Cameron walking back into Downing Street.”
  Find My Seat: A quick guide to the candidates standing in your constituency 
However, an SNP spokesman pledged the election is not about independence.
“As Nicola Sturgeon has said, even if the SNP won every seat in Scotland at the general election, that wouldn’t result in another referendum,” he added.
“Nicola has been very clear that she isn’t planning for another referendum – something big would have to change first.
“The crucial point is that the people of Scotland are in charge - there could only be another referendum if people voted for a party at a Scottish Parliament election advocating one. ”
Meanwhile, the Survation poll shows if there was another referendum tomorrow it would be a narrow No vote. Excluding undecideds, 51 per cent of Scots would vote No and 49 per cent Yes.
The No vote is down from the 55 per cent who backed the Union in September but higher than in our poll last month, which put Yes ahead for the first time since the vote.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

