A PROTESTER was escorted from the Scottish Parliament after dramatically interrupting a debate on a controversial European Union-US trade deal.
Holyrood proceedings were suspended briefly after a woman began shouting from the public gallery as MSPs discussed the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), which aims to remove barriers between the EU and the US.
Supporters say the trade deal would make it easier to buy and sell goods and services as well as opening up markets, but critics fear it poses a threat to public services, particularly the health service.
The intervention came shortly after Conservative MSP Jamie McGrigor said it would be &quot;Luddite&quot; to reject the deal.
He was interrupted after telling MSPs that TTIP &quot;would deliver up &pound;10 billion per year to the British economy, unshackle business from red tape, trade tariffs and other obstacles to free trade and the prosperity that this can deliver.&quot;
Deputy presiding officer Elaine Smith was forced to suspend proceedings as the woman began shouting criticism of TTIP over the MSP.
She was escorted from the chamber by security staff to a round of applause from members of the public in the gallery.
A spokesman for the Scottish Parliament said: &quot;There was a short disturbance in the gallery resulting in a female being escorted out of the building by police officers.&quot;
Continuing his speech, Mr McGrigor said: &quot;There are a lot of misconceptions surrounding TTIP that are wrongfully undermining a genuinely good trade deal and it's a shame if this kind of scaremongering is going to scupper something that could be good for people, working people.
&quot;It's important that we do not succumb to these myths and anti-American sentiments that sometimes are evident in this country.&quot;
SNP MSP Linda Fabiani, who was next to speak in the debate, was applauded by MSPs for stating: &quot;Can I just say one of the things I love about this country is people's right to protest.&quot;
Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop, whose portfolio includes Europe, said indicative Scottish Government modelling of the impact of TTIP suggested that it would have a positive, albeit modest, effect on headline indicators such as GDP and total international exports.
&quot;But we must recognise that this is not a one-way street,&quot; she said.
&quot;Whilst the aggregate economic impact may be positive, there could be some sub-sectors and some companies which are adversely affected. There will be winners and losers.&quot;
She added: &quot;Truth be told, no-one can be absolutely certain of the scale and the scope of the economic benefits and challenges that TTIP might bring, or how they will play out across businesses and communities.&quot;
Ms Hyslop also reiterated the SNP administration's calls for the NHS to be exempted from the agreement.
&quot;The Scottish Government has been pressing the UK Government and the European Commission for an explicit exemption for the NHS on the face of the agreement,&quot; she said.
Labour MSP Jenny Marra said: &quot;We are right to be vigilant. Part of the problem has been the secret nature in the way this has been negotiated.
&quot;While this may be normal for trade talks, people need clarity and assurances when something as important as our NHS and our public services are being discussed.&quot;
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

