
         i am having something very unusual happen.  first 
 some background on my system.  i have a mitsubishi 63 meg hard drive, 
 and am running smartdrv (the version that comes with windows 3.1) on 
 it.  i rarely use windows.  i use a program called disk technician 
 gold v1.14 to do diagnostics live time on my hard drive.  it works by 
 having a device driver detect whenever more than one read is 
 necessary for a file, or if there is anything else is wrong with it, 
 and minor problems are fully checked out upon rebooting.  my hard 
 drive is notorious for bad sectors.  i usually end up with 8 new bad 
 sectors a week.
  
         here's what happened:  i ran a program, and dtg broke in with 
 an emergency warning and recommended i reboot.  it gave me this 
 message twice before the program was fully loaded.  i exited the program 
 and did just this.  dtg went through its bootup process, examining 
 for new errors etc., and a screen popped up and said something about 
 sectors for a brief period of time.
  
         i then went back to the program, executed it again, and the 
 exact same error was detected.  i rebooted and tried again, and the 
 same error happened again.  so, i removed dtg from memory, and went 
 to the program to see if i could detect anything wrong.  sure enough 
 there was a number of read attempts.  so i rebooted and reloaded dtg, 
 but removed the cache.  i executed the program.  no read errors, 
 either audible or detected by dtg.  i quit the program, loaded the 
 cache, and ran the program again.  the errors were detected.
  
         ok, so the errors are there, and dtg detects but doesn't fix 
 them, when the cache is loaded.  when the cache is not loaded there are 
 no errors.  so, to see if the cache was interfering with any other 
 files, i went into xtree gold and tagged all files, and searched them 
 for a random string (in other words, i wanted the program to 
 completely read every file on my hard drive).  before i got through 
 the c's dtg had detected at least six errors and recommended i reboot.
  
         does anybody, have any idea why smartdrv is causing misreads on 
 my hard drive?  oh, there are exactly two misreads per file, and 1 in 
 about every 100 files are affected.  
  
         i originally posted this message to disk technician corp.'s 
 system, but i figured someone out in netland may know enough about 
 smartdrv to help me out.
 
 --                    
 internet:  jdriver@netlink.cts.com (john driver)
 uucp:   ...!ryptyde!netlink!jdriver
 netlink online communications * public access in san diego, ca (619) 453-1115
 