
 i don't know much about computers, so please bear with me. here's my question:
 
 context: i use a package called slip on my home computer to connect to the
          university mainframe (an ibm 3090 running vms/mvs), and log on to my
          account. when i installed slip on my computer, i had to configure it
          for my modem (14.4 kbs etronics internal) and had to supply the phone
          number to dial to reach the mainframe. the way it works now is that
          i type "telnet uicvm" or "tn3270 uicvm" (either will work) at the dos
          prompt. uicvm is the node name of the mainframe. the program then
          dials the mainframe, establishes a protocol, and gives me the logon
          screen. "telnet" and "tn3270" are the names of batch files in my slip
          directory. i have been told that a kermit protocol is used for the
          session.
 
 problem: i would like to be able to do all this under windows 3.1 because i
          hardly ever use dos directly. slip will not run under windows. i
          talked to the people at our computer center, and they suggested that
          i use a packet driver called winpkt.com with slip. they gave me
          instructions on how to load it before i start windows, and how to
          modify the tcpstart and tcpstop batch files (in the slip directory)
          to ensure that it would work. i did all that and i could run slip
          from windows, but there were other problems. for one thing, slip
          would not hang up the phone when i exited. i had to run my communi-
          cations program to hang up the phone or reboot the computer when
          that didn't work. for another, there were too many errors. it often
          took me 3-4 tries to connect to the mainframe. our computer center
          does not support slip under windows, so i can't keep going back to
          them with more questions.
 
 question: is there some other shareware package that will run under windows
          and do what slip is supposed to do? i need a package that is not too
          expensive, which is why i am looking for shareware. i have heard that
          there are regular commercial packages that do all this, but they cost
          hundreds of dollars. these are the main requirements:
 
          1. must be able to run under windows 3.1
          2. must allow vt100 and ibm tn3270 terminal emulation
          3. must allow ftp file transfers, since that's the only kind the
             mainframe allows. no y-modem or z-modem etc. i believe the ftp
             transfers are made through a kermit protocol, but i'm hazy about
             that.
 
          a subsidiary feature (that would be nice to have) if it's a true
          windows program (rather than a dos program modified to run under
          windows) is the ability to run the session in a window concurrently
          with other applications and to cut and paste between the telnet
          session and other applications.
 
 any information received is appreciated.
 
 pankaj saxena
 u09416@uicvm.uic.edu
 