
 i'd like to appeal to the net's nt wizards for a bit of advice.
 
 first a general description of the machine as follows:
  motherboard: utron 33 mhz opti chipset, 20 meg memory, 256kb cache
       (soon i hope to drop a dx2 chip into it)
  fahrenheit 1280 video (1 meg, 1024x768x256)
  proaudio spectrum 16 sound board
  primary disk = connor cp30174 on a caching ide controller
  secondary disk = conner cp30174 as slave on same controller
  tertiary disk = fujitsu ??? 650 meg on superstore esdi controller
  planned future disks include scsi hd and cd rom on pas16 scsi port
  tape drive is a colorado jumbo 250 on the floppy controller
   future tape drive may be a dat on the scsi interface.
  other hardware includes modem/fax, serial ports, and a teletext board
  (ugly dos software drives the latter)
 
 applications used include normal windows stuff (excel, word, quicken
 and turbo pascal/windows) but the important stuff is my audio
 work environment which includes turtle beach wave for windows, mcs stereo,
 and other misc stuff for dinking around with audio files.  also i use
 stacker on the primary drive, hp newwave (for my wife's use, and she 
 won't let me get rid of it!), and a product called infinite disk from 
 chili pepper software for hierarchical storage management of my seldom 
 used offline files.  
 
 i plan to upgrade to nt, when it becomes a released product.  i was stongly
 tempted to become a beta user early on, but i don't have time to mess around
 with the hassles of beta software.  i expect to buy it, tear off the 
 shrink wrap, and use it without hassle (i know, unrealistic, but i can
 hope can't i, after all, i have work to do).
 
 the advice i want concerns the state of nt regarding device drivers, and 
 hardware specific stuff in general.  how smoothly can i expect the 
 upgrade to go?  can i expect support for all my stuff, or do i
 still need to scramble around downloading drivers (pas?, orchid?, colorado?) 
 from some bbs, etc.  what steps should i take to ensure the installation
 goes smoothly.  note that i want to nuke dos totally from the system.  i'm
 allergic to command lines!  i plan to run a "pure" nt system.  also, will 
 nt communicate with the workgroups lan?  what about stacker?  i currently 
 have stacker on the first disk drive.  without stacker, and the infinite 
 disk product, i will have great difficulty fitting everything i have on the 
 system (it's cramped now).
 
 i realize stacker will be incompatible with nt, but will there be an nt 
 version?  or will nt support compression a la dos 6?  i know infinite disk
 will be incompatible with nt, but will they offer (or does anybody else)
 a comparable product for nt and at what cost?  (perhaps i need to ask 
 chili pepper that question)  i can live without id if i have to, but i'd
 rather not.  will nt run my dos apps (the teletext board mainly) without
 dos on the system?  what do i need to keep around?
 
 any feedback or advice (including "forget nt" with good reasons) is much
 appreciated.  my only significant reason for moving to nt is i need a better
 multitasking environment than windows (among other reasons, wave locks up
 the machine for hours and hours doing dsp processing on large audio files),
 and i want better lan support than i now have (internet access, etc).  maybe
 there are better solutions than nt and if so, i would appreciate hearing 
 about them (os/2?  what's it's status these days?)
 
 pls respond by email and if there is interest i'll summarize for the net.
 
 thanks,
 nathan gregory
 p00211@psilink.com
 
 