
 less than 1/2 of mailorder price!
 
 i have three libraries, all on cd, which cost me over two thousand dollars
 mail order.  they are all genuine, high quality eps vector graphics (not just
 some scans with a silly eps wrapper!)  they are:
 
 1. totem graphics color eps library (about 1400 color eps images).
    this costs a thousand bucks mailorder.  i rate this clip art as
    high quality (much better than dynamic graphics clip art, sotmc clip art,
    etc., in my opinion), but i rate both the 3g library and the c.a.r.
    library as higher.  totem's art is all color -- whereas most of the other's
    are b&w.  it's the best all-color library out there, in my opinion.
 
 2. c.a.r. graphics library (haven't counted how many images, but you can
    purchase the library on 48 floppies, to give you an idea of the size).
    this costs about 4 hundred bucks mailorder.  i rate this clip art as
    very high quality, but it's only b&w.
 
 3. 3g graphics library (very popular in all the mac mags).  this costs
    about 4 hundred bucks mailorder.  i rate this clip art as very high quality
    (got some awards in one of the major mac mags, forgot which).  some of
    the images are color, but most are b&w.
 
 for what it's worth, all three of the cd's are saved in multiple file formats.
 they are readable on mac's and pc's.  additionally, totem's will mount native-
 next also, although the next could just as easily mount either the mac or pc
 filesystems.  i've personally tested the cd's on all three machines (i've owned
 all three machines, although i sold my next a few months ago).
 
 also, in my opinion, the 3g and c.a.r. libraries are the best in the business
 (and i've seen lots).  also, totem's is, in my opinion, the best all-color
 library around, although i like 3g's color art better.
 
 i want $850 for everything.  can ship certified check c.o.d., as well as
 visa/mc charge.  if you pay by visa/mc, i'll ship pre-paid in the continental u.s.
 if i ship c.o.d., buyer pays freight and c.o.d. fee.
 
 reason for selling: no longer have dtp business.
 
 please respond via email or telephone, as i rarely check these news groups.
 
 nevin
 
 email: npratt@glacier.sim.es.com
 voice: (h) 265-8949
        (w) 582-5847 x6420
 
 