
 in article <1t9ada$og0@fitz.tc.cornell.edu> stlombo@eos.acm.rpi.edu (steve j. lombardi) writes:
 >by night i'm an amiga user. by day i work with windows. i'd be much more 
 >comfortable in windows if i had two things.
 >
 >1. a good personal information manager. you know- a calendar, address book,
 >reminder list etc... rolled into one clean interface.
 
 i prefer infoselect myself, but it is a strange kind of pim. 
 
 >2. a good file manager. microsofts is very poor by my standards. how
 >about one that has a left and right window and allows file operations 
 >between them. being able to launch programs from the same interface
 >would be nice. as well as text reading and graphics viewing. those
 >who are familiar with directory opus on the amiga know what i'm
 >looking for.
 
 
 well, a few things might help you like the 3.1 file manager better.
 
 1) to get more than one window simply double click on a drive icon.
    that it only gives you one window to work with is a fallacy. you
    can drag files between windows, to any icon on the tree on the left
    side of the window, and to any drive icon. this beats your "left
    and right window" as you can have as many open as you wish instead 
    of just two.
 
 2) you can launch any app from within file manager by double clicking
    on the executable's icon.
 
 3) you can launch any application and open a document file by double
    clicking on the document file's icon, provided you have
    associations set correctly. this is easily done with the menus. the
    "browse" capability adds a lot of functionality to 3.1. so if you
    name all your text files with .txt and point all gif, tiff, etc.
    files towards paintshop or wingif, this takes care of your
    requirement for "text reading and graphics viewing".
 
 i know someone who prefers using file manager as his shell. setting up
 all the associations you need is the way to do it.
 
 if directory opus is half as good as file manager then it must be
 pretty good indeed! file manager just needs you to understand how
 some things are done.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 iskandar taib                          | the only thing worse than peach ala
 internet: ntaib@silver.ucs.indiana.edu |    frog is frog ala peach
 bitnet:   ntaib@iubacs                 !
 