
 
 windows shareware monthly (wsm) is an on-line forum for information about the
 newest and best windows 3.x and nt shareware/freeware software. 
 
 wsm is a compilation of submissions from shareware/freeware authors in a single
 windows .hlp (help system) file.  all types of software may be submitted for
 entry in wsm - utilities, applications, games, programming tools, etc.
 
 wsm benefits windows shareware/freeware authors by allowing them to publicize
 their software releases, inform users of updated versions, and to increase
 their installed base of users.  those searching for specific windows software
 will benefit by having a complete list of available software available at their
 fingertips - complete with feature lists, current prices, and any other
 relevant information.
 
 windows software authors may submit entries to windows shareware monthly in the
 following manner:
 
 1. compose a short summary of the function of the software.  include all
    special features which are unique to your product and which set it apart
    from other programs in the genre.  be sure to include specific details
    such as: the current release version, where the software is available,
    how much the registration fee costs, how much disk space is required, any
    special requirements (e.g. sound card, or vbrun200.dll, etc.), how the
    author may be contacted, etc.  because text is highly compressible, the
    summary may be as long as is necessary, however, it is best to keep it
    short.  a good guideline is a single screenful of 12-point text at 640x480
    resolution.  order forms and other such addendum may be included if desired.
    all submissions whould be in plain text (ascii) format.  formatting will
    be exactly as it is submitted - i will simply cut and paste text files
    into a help authoring system.  if you require special formatting 
    conventions - such as boldface text or italics, or a larger font size,
    indicate so clearly within the text file.  for best results, use windows
    notepad to create the .txt file. 
  
 2. include up to 100k of windows-format .bmp (bitmap) screen-shots which
    display the workings or special features of each program.  special cases
    (rendering applications for example) which require 256-color bitmaps may
    submit up to 250k of .bmp files - all other should observe the 100k limit
    and use 16-color format.  for maximum compatiblity with the software which
    will be used to create the wsm .hlp file (stefan olson's help writer's
    assistant for windows), please save the bitmaps with windows paintbrush or
    wingif. 
 
 3. include a 16-color .bmp of the program's icon (.ico file).  many programs
    are available to convert .ico to .bmp format, or windows paintbrush may be
    used.  the .bmp will be embedded in the summary text.
 
 4. double-check for spelling errors, formatting corrections, etc.  
 
 5. compress the .txt file, the .bmp of the program icon, and any additional
    .bmps into a single file using pkzip (any version).
 
 6. submit the entry by uuencoding the .zipfile, and e-mailing it to:
    
    daa7365@tamuts.tamu.edu
 
    if submitting via the internet or compuserve. if submitting via america
    online, send a brief message indicating submission, and append the .zip
    file, then e-mail to:
 
    diegoaa
 
 7. if any changes are required, or a new version is released, complete
    the above procedures again.  send all submissions to the @tamuts address,
    and any comments, suggestions, criticisms, to daa7365@rigel.tamu.edu.
 
 all entries received before the deadline will be included in the subsequent
 edition of wsm.  the editor will not be held responsible for any errors, and
 we reserve the right to make changes to the entries.
 
 wsm is not limited to shareware/freeware software.  a special area will be
 devoted to commercially available windows 3.x and nt software.  commercial
 software authors should follow the same steps above, with the exception of
 the limitations on size - the .txt file and .bmps may be as large as required
 (and as large as is practical for transmission over phone lines).  there
 is no charge for the publishing of either shareware/freeware or commercial
 product entries.  
 
 advertisements for computer hardware, software, bulletin boards, etc. may
 be submitted as well. again, the same procedures apply, with the exception of
 the size limitations.  there is no charge for advertising space.  the first
 ten advertisements submitted each month will be included; subsequent
 submissions will not be included due to size constraints.
 
 wsm is currently looking for persons willing to devote the time to author
 columns within wsm.  a c/c++ programing section, a visual basic section, and
 two windows-specific opinion/advice columns are envisioned.  all work will
 be on a voluntary basis.  if you wish to aid wsm and author a monthly column
 on one of the above topics, please send us mail at daa7365@tamuts.tamu.edu or
 diegoaa on america online.
  
 the first edition of wsm will be distributed may 1st via america online,
 compuserve, and the internet.  the deadline for submissions is april 28th.
 the first edition filename will be wsm-1.zip, with each subsequent monthly
 release continuing in the series naming convention (wsm-2.zip, etc.).  each
 edition will be released on the first of each month, and the deadline for
 submission will be at least three days before release. 
 
  
 