
 in comp.os.ms-windows.misc you write:
 
 >while reading through the dos 6.0 book, it states that the windows permanaent swap file will not work correctly when placed on a compressed drive.  to make things compatable,
 >i removed my permanent swap file before starting the upgrade.  however, when all the dust settled, and i go into windows, it says that the temporary swap file is right where it always was, in the windows directory.  my question is:  how come the temporary swap files works ok with a compressed drive, and the permanent one doesn't?
 
 you might want to look in windows faq for this one, but here is my best
 explanation.  but i can't guarantee that i'm not way off base...
 
 the permenant swap file is read/written to by windows by talking
 directly to the hard disk controller card.  the controller card must
 use the protocal set up by western digital (or something like that).
 windows creates a file called spart.par in your windows directory that
 points to that file.  it then uses the physical information about your
 disk to index to information in that file.
 
 compressed disks are actually "logical" disks.  these disks have different
 characteristics than the actual physical disk.  furthermore, the information
 on the compressed disks must be uncompressed before it is used.  (i.e it must
 go through the decompression program that traps disk reads at the operating
 system level or the bios level).  because of this "inbetween" program, windows
 cannot use direct methods to read from the "logical" disk.
 
 a permenant swap file is only there to "reserve" an area of the disk that
 windows can use and to block that space from dos.  windows would theoretically
 not even have to access the file from dos to use that disk space. (i don't
 know if it does or doesn't...but it checks for it somewhere everytime you
 boot windows.)
 
 a temporary swap file is just a normal dos file that is accessed by windows
 via dos and the bios.  if a disk compression program or other tsr is loaded
 the file access must go through dos...tsr's (disk compression)...and bios in
 order to be access. (i.e. never use a temporary swap file...never)
 
 more on permenent swap files...
 
 i'm sure everyone who has an uncompressed part of their compressed hard disk
 has seen the message "you have selected a swap file greater than the suggested
 size...windows will only use the size suggested...do you wan't to create this
 swap file anyway" or something like that.
 
 well, a friend of mine (robert) called microsoft and asked them what and why.
 what they said is that windows checks the amount of free disk space and
 divides that number by 2.  then it checks for the largest contiguous block
 of free disk space.  windows then suggests the smaller of the two numbers.
 
 they also said that under absolutely no circumstances...none!...will windows
 uses a swap file larger than the suggested size.  well...that's what he 
 said!
 
 i call bull@#$#.  if this is true why does windows report the memory is
 available to me if it's not going to use it?
 
 any takers?
 
 james
 
 (if this doesn't get to the net, will someone post it for me?  thanks)
 
 