              at oracle corporation.  the opinions expressed are those
               of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
 lines: 41
 
 
 as the subjects says, windows 3.1 keeps crashing (givinh me gpf) on me of  
 late.  it was never a very stable package, but now it seems to crash every  
 day.  the worst part about it is that it does not crash consistently: ie i  
 can't reproduce crashes, and they are not always gpf's in the same  
 application. sometimes i can recover by simply closing the application  
 that caused an error, but other times, windows acts very strange, and i  
 need to re-boot.
 
 some background:  i have a leading edge 486sx25 with phoenix bios.  when i  
 first got it it had 4mg of memory.  it ran windows fine (not too many  
 gpf's).  then, a couple of weekends ago, i installed lotus 123 for windows  
 (with atm), a game card and an additional 4  1mg simms.  the leading edge  
 machine is kind of strange, in that it has the ide controler built into  
 the motherboard, the cpu is actually on a sparate board that plugs into  
 the motherboard and the simms it uses are macintosh simms! apparently i  
 was told that the leading edge had the parity bit built into the mother  
 board.  the original 4mg 80ns simms where of the 2 chip variety from  
 samsung, and the ones i installed are 8 chip simms. they are recognized  
 fine by the bios ram check. the game card is a generic $20 gamecard.
 
 the reason why i mention the hardware like this is that sometimes  
 rebooting the machine using the reset button or ctl-alt-del still leaves  
 the machine kind of flaky, but turning it on and off doesn't. 
 
 i haven't tried taking out the ram or the game card, because as i said  
 these gpf are not reproducible at will.  i have gone through and entire  
 day using the computer with no problems and then i might get 5 or so gpf's  
 in the sppace of 20 minutes?
 
 what can i do.  this situation is most annoying... are there any good  
 diagnostic tools for hardware? do you think that this might be a software  
 problem (ie emm386 etc.)? if it helps, i have manage to get gpf's on after  
 dark, quicken, paint shop pro. a lot of them have been in user.exe or  
 gdi.exe.
 
 any help is truly appreciated.....
 
 -eric
 
 ebosco@us.oracle.com
 