	<rick.734972416@silver> <2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com>
 nntp-posting-host: lyra.crhc.uiuc.edu
 in-reply-to: reimert@.etdesg.trw.com's message of fri, 16 apr 93 21:34:28 gmt
 
 in article <2bcf2664.3c6a@deneva.sdd.trw.com> reimert@.etdesg.trw.com (scott p. reimert) writes:
 
 >   somewhere in this thread, it has been said that windows nt (tm) is a 
 >   multi-user os, as well as multi-threading, etc.  i certainly haven't
 >   seen this to be the case.  there are seperate accounts for each person,
 >   and even seperate directories if that is desired.  i don't see an 
 >   implentation of simultaneuos use though.
 >
 >		   scott
 
 it certainly is multi-user. what i have seen from the march beta is
 that it doesn't yet come with the stuff which exploits multi-user
 features. i remember somebody from ms stating that it doesn't allow
 two users share one gui. my interpretation of this was that one user
 per console but all the networking and rpc based stuff you want. 
 
 i believe ftp and rlogin deamons for nt systems will come from third
 party. somebody already has a beta version of an unsecure ftpd on the
 net. there is no reason why one cannot write a posix based shell like
 csh on unix for remote logins. 
 
 in general i liked nt when i checked it out. it slow compared to
 win3.1 (just like any other real os). the beta version, although being
 slow, botts up much faster than my sun workstation. windows subsystems
 also start up a lot faster than x windows. i believe bill gates was
 right when he stated that nt was not for everybody. after playing
 around with it for a while i was convinced. if i owned a busines using
 a "business computer" from ibm or some other established vendor, i
 would consider moving to nt platform because it would provide a much
 cheaper solution (if you are running sql servers etc.). it provides
 the robustness such an application requires. 
 
 on the other hand if you like your dos games, more or less forget
 about nt. you can always boot to dos  but in general that defeats
 the purpose of using nt. most of nt's features are visible in a
 networked environment and in such an environment you can't reboot your
 machine at will. for personal use, i would rather wait for the win32
 based windows release (whatever you name it) than jump to nt bandwagon.
 i expect most applications will keep on using win16 until win32
 becomes widely available. 
 
 --
 sadun anik, u of illinois at urbana-champaign
 center for reliable and high-performance computing
 e-mail: anik@crhc.uiuc.edu
 