
 in article <wiggins.93apr16011654@buttercup.cs.odu.edu> wiggins@buttercup.cs.odu.edu (samuel e wiggins) writes:
 
 >btw, how would you rate the new "borland turbo c++ visual edition for
 >windows," anyone?
 
 time for a new discussion, maybe ? i asked in these groups some time ago
 what about the tc++/ve, and got no answers, so i decided to try. my brother
 who lives in the us bought and sent it to me, and i'm still trying to get
 used to it.
 
 before i put my good/bad points list, consider i am a turbo pascal/dos
 programmer, and sometimes try to make something in unix with c (just
 some exercises from university). i used to make some programs in
 microsoft c version 5 (!!) because we used some third-party libraries
 that required that. 
 - i like borland. it seems to me much more easier to use than microsoft,
   specially the debugger. i tried to learn codeview sometimes, but never
   felt confortable with it.
 - tc++ v/e seems very nice to create simple apps, like the examples on the
   objectwindows book. so far, no problems. lets see next week or so, when i
   will try something more complex.
 - it works nice even in my "weak" machine 386/16mhz, 6 mb ram. 
 
 but.....
 
 - the manual for the resource workshop seems to be from a different version 
   from the workshop itself. some of the windows that appear on the manual
   have more itens than in the manual.
 - i think i will run into trouble since i got this tc++/ve from my brother
   as a present. i didnt wanted to buy the japanese version because 1) i 
   suspect that the manuals will be in japanese :-( and 2) i believe it
   will be far more expensive here. so he bought it as a present and sent to
   me, i send the registration card to the japanese branch of borland, but...
   who knows.
 
 so, i'd like to ask some questions for you all;
 
 - i know that there are some microsoft guys around here in this group. is
   there anybody from borland ? is there any e-mail address that we can 
   contact the technical support ? not for stupid questions, but to ask
   for example, why the rw manual seems to be different from the rw itself ?
 - is there anybody else using it around here ?
 - will the book of petzold be useful for me ? i intend to use rw and protogen
   to make the interfaces and then work on the code itself. 
 
 answers to my e-mail or comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools, please.
 
 thanks in advance,
 
 rafael.
 
 
 