
 >i'd appreciate if you can email or post you positive
 >or negative experience with this monitor, especially
 >compared to to nanao 550i.
 >i'd summarize if i got multiple responses.
 
 i bought a viewsonic 17 for use at home but after a week i took it back.  i 
 felt for the money my nec 5fg that i use at work was a much better monitor.
 the nec is sharper, flatter, less distorted, and more stable.  i have heard 
 complaints from people about the nec fg series having some quality control 
 problems but mine has been in use for about a year with no problems at all.
 
 there was nothing really broken with the viewsonic but overall it did not 
 match up.  i used my ati graphics ultra in setup mode to push the 
 frequencies to their limits and the viewsonic exhibited some problems that 
 the nec did not.  i personally like the non-etched nec with the ocli filter 
 and the tube on the 17 was not as nice.  the 17 had some uncorrectable 
 pincusion and edge distortion problems.  also, it would change brightness 
 when i switched modes and i was constantly having to fiddle with the 
 controls.  and the yoke was crooked and i had no way to compensate for the 
 raster that tilted downhill.  on the postive side, although not as handsome 
 as the nec, the 17 had a smaller footprint and was not as heavy.
 
 i have heard that panasonic owns viewsonic and the model 17 is being sold 
 through oem channels with a panasonic label on it.  if it's available that 
 way at a lower cost i could get more serious about it.  for now the nec has 
 my vote but i'm searching for one of the new, cheaper, nec 5fge's to see if 
 it's just as good as its older brother the 5fg before i decide which one to 
 buy.
 
 i have no experience with the nanao.  i can never keep the nanao models 
 straight and don't have any place i can walk in to get a good comparison of 
 all models.
 
 -- 
 
 standard employer disclaimers apply
 
 
 
 -- 
 keith w. johnson      tektronix, gpi/nd info services, wilsonville, or, usa
 internet: keith.w.johnson@tek.com   voice: 503-685-2953   fax: 503-682-3595
 