
 this is the official request for discussion (rfd) for the creation of two
 new newsgroups for microsoft windows nt.  this is a second rfd, replacing
 the one originally posted in january '93 (and never taken to a vote).  the
 proposed groups are described below:
 
 name: 	 comp.os.ms-windows.nt.setup
 status:  unmoderated.
 purpose: discussions about setting up and installing windows nt, and about
 	 system and peripheral compatability issues for windows nt.
 
 name:	 comp.os.ms-windows.nt.misc
 status:	 unmoderated.
 purpose: miscellaneous non-programming discussions about using windows nt,
 	 including issues such as security, networking features, console
 	 mode and windows 3.1 (win16) compatability.
 
 rationale:
 	microsoft nt is the newest member of the microsoft windows family
 	of operating systems (or operating environments for those who wish
 	to argue about the meaning of an "os").  the family ranges from
 	modular windows through windows 3.1 and windows for workgroups to
 	windows nt at the high end.  to date, microsoft has shipped over
 	50,000 beta copies and pre-release sdks of windows nt -- the
 	actual release is slated for may/june '93.
 
 	while windows nt has an entirely new design internally, it shares
 	an application programming interface with the other members of the
 	windows family; its win32 api includes the win16 api used in win-
 	dows 3.1, and the win32s api subset (win32 less threads, networking
 	and security) can be used to create 32-bit applications for
 	windows 3.1.
 
 	the user interface is also practically identical to that of windows
 	3.1, with the addition of logins and a few other features.  it uses
 	program manager, file manager and other applets, and generally pre-
 	sents an identical appearance to the user.  many of the announced
 	windows nt applications are ports of existing windows 3.1 apps, and
 	nt also runs existing 3.1 applications.
 
 	thus, it appears logical that windows nt should share the following
 	groups with the other members of the windows family:
 		comp.os.ms-windows.apps
 		comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.tools
 		comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.misc
 		comp.os.ms-windows.programmer.win32
 	
 	the following groups are also clearly applicable to windows nt as
 	well as windows 3.1:
 		comp.os.ms-windows.announce
 		comp.os.ms-windows.advocacy
 	
 	in conclusion, the only clear argument for the separation of the
 	windows 3.1 and windows nt hierarchies is different internal
 	structures of windows 3.1 and windows nt.  and yet operating
 	systems such as os/2, macintosh os, xenix and coherent all have
 	undergone major rewrites without having been split into separate
 	newsgroup hierarchies.
 
 	further, windows 3.1 is due for a major rewrite itself in 1994 --
 	when the fully 32-bit, protected-mode and with-dos-built-in next-
 	generation windows, "chicago", debuts next year, surely it should
 	remain in the same hierarchy.  and what, then, would be the jus-
 	tification for separating windows nt from other windows versions?
 
 
 discussion period:
 	the discussion period will run from 27 april, 1992 to 18 may, 1993.  
 
 voting:
 	the cfv (call for votes) will be issued around 19 may, 1993, based on
 	the feedback received during the discussion period.  no votes will
 	be accepted prior to the cfv.
 -- 
 [ /tom haapanen -- tomh@metrics.com -- software metrics inc -- waterloo, ont ]
 [       "stick your index fingers into both corners of your mouth.  now pull ]
 [          up.  that's how the corrado makes you feel."  -- car, january '93 ]
 