A SCOT aged 32 has drowned in the pool at a luxury Spanish holiday villa just 12 hours after arriving.
Brian Nicol went swimming after getting back to the villa in upmarket Marbella from a night out with family and friends.
Police were called to the scene shortly after 8.30am.
A source close to the investigation said: “Our understanding is that he had dived in and swum underwater two or three times during the night without any problem.
“But he failed to surface the last time he jumped in.”
Brian’s friends got him out of the pool and started trying to revive him before police arrived and took over. Paramedics also raced to the scene but there was nothing anyone could do.
Police said: “The incident is still being investigated but all the evidence at this stage is pointing to a tragic accident.”
Brian’s cousin, Lorraine Hunter said: “We can’t get our heads around what happened.
“Brian lived life to the full.
“He was funny, witty, and when he knew what he wanted, he went out and got it.
“He always wanted to help people and make them happy.”
The 40-year-old of Cambuslang, Glasgow, added: “Brian was such a sensible boy, that’s what makes this so hard to understand.
“His mum, dad and brother are devastated.
“And what makes it worse is we don’t even know exactly what has happened.”
Brian and his group arrived on the Costa del Sol the day before the tragedy. A police source said: “They had come across for a birthday. There were a number of relatives.”
The group were staying in Nueva Andalucia, one of Marbella’s most desirable areas and a favourite with wealthy British visitors.
Pervert former PR guru Max Clifford, now serving an eight-year sentence for a string of sex attacks, has a home nearby.
Brian, who was born in Glasgow but lived in Edinburgh, was thrilled when he saw the sprawling villa. He wrote on Facebook: “Ooh mmmmmyyyyy.......God...Kim Kardashian eat your heart out...”
After getting settled, Brian and his group headed out for the evening.
 

Sources say they returned to the villa later to carry on partying round the pool. Paramedics were called at 8.40am on Sunday.
As is routine in Spain, a judge has been appointed to head the investigation into Brian’s death. A post mortem was due to take place at the Forensic Medicine Institute in Malaga.
Experts were expected to look for any signs that Brian suffered a blow to the head or digestion problems which may have caused stomach cramps.
Brian worked in the motoring industry and is understood to have been promoted recently, Relatives and friends paid tribute to him online.
Barry and Danni Nicol posted 30 love hearts and wrote: “We miss you so much Brian. Rest in peace brother.”
Darren Gilbertson wrote: “RIP Brian, can’t believe how cruel this world can be. To think you were looking forward to an amazing holiday and passed away not even 12 hours of arriving. You will be missed mate.”
No one at the villa wanted to speak yesterday. A Scottish man who looked worn and tired said: “There’s nothing I want to say at the moment.”
The Foreign Office said they were providing consular assistance to the family.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

