A FORGOTTEN suspect for the murder of Emma Caldwell can be revealed today on the 10th anniversary of her death.
Iain Packer, described at the time as a habitual user of prostitutes, was interviewed six times by detectives but never arrested or charged, despite admitting he was a regular client of Emma and being able to direct officers to the isolated forestry track where her body was found.
The admission of Packer that he knew Emma, and had driven her to the remote spot several times before, will raise fresh concern about the failed investigation into her murder.
More than two years after she disappeared on April 4, 2005, police arrested and charged four Turkish men following a massive operation that cost up to &pound;4million, involved months of covert audio and video surveillance and enlisted undercover officers from across Britain and Europe.
 

But the prosecution’s case collapsed after defence lawyers questioned the accuracy of translated transcripts of allegedly incriminating taped conversations.
Last week, Police Scotland insisted the case remained open. But yesterday, former detective Gerry Gallacher, whose exhaustive 18-month investigation has revealed the existence of the apparently forgotten suspect, said officers should now explain why he was ruled out of their inquiry. Author Gallacher, who was not involved in the murder investigation before retiring in 2010 after 30 years with the police, says the inquiry into Emma’s death should be reviewed immediately.
He said: “From the outside looking in, I do not understand how a man who changed his story so many times, admitted knowing Emma and knew how to find such an incredibly isolated spot in the middle of nowhere was not pressed further on her death.
 

“I fear the operation against the Turks was so big and at such an apparently advanced stage that it may have blinded the officers in charge to what was in front of them.
“They were so certain that their preferred suspects were guilty, they failed to focus on a suspect right in front of them.
“A reluctance to change tack when so much has been invested in one line of investigation is understandable but it can’t be an excuse.
“Perhaps there is something the police know that we do not. But, given what this man said during interview, it is hard to imagine any reason why he would not be front and centre in the thoughts of the police.”
 
Gallacher has learned that Packer, now 43, was first interviewed by detectives just weeks after Emma’s body was found by a dog-walker in woodland. At first, the stocky, powerfully-built neon sign maintenance man denied knowing her but his story repeatedly changed as months passed and other prostitutes, identifying him from pictures, told police how he had been infatuated with Emma, who had been driven on to the streets by her heroin habit.
They described him asking for her in the “drag”, Glasgow’s red light zone, and how he tried to scare off other men from approaching her.

They told how Packer, whose activities with prostitutes cost him two marriages and a long-term relationship, was very cautious and paranoid about being stopped by the police.
The women told detectives how he would pick up prostitutes in the city and drive them 30 miles to a remote spot, in forestry land in south Lanarkshire, before asking them to strip and have sex outdoors. One of them took detectives to the secluded wood, near Biggar, where Packer had driven her on a number of occasions.
 

During his sixth and final interview, Packer took detectives to the same spot, the place where Emma’s naked body was found in a ditch, five weeks after she was last seen.
Eventually, he admitted that Emma was the first woman he had taken there and had returned with her up to five times.
He also admitted losing his temper with some of the prostitutes he took to the spot but, he insisted, not Emma.
She disappeared after leaving a hostel in Govanhill, Glasgow, just after 10pm on April 4, 2005. Her remains were discovered about 20 yards from the road in woods near Roberton, Lanarkshire, five weeks later, on Sunday, May 8, by a man walking his dog.
The huge investigation already under way escalated further after her body was found as police chiefs, acutely aware that a number of murders involving prostitutes had remained unsolved, invested man hours and resources in the hunt for Emma’s killer.
But progress was slow, with a number of public appeals failing to provide a breakthrough. Secretly, however, in tandem with the public investigation, the police were mounting a huge electronic surveillance operation centred on a Turkish cafe in Glasgow. Twenty-seven months after Emma’s disappearance, four men – Huseyin Cobanoglu, 63, Halil Kandil, 42, Abubekir Oncu, 39, and Mustafa Soylemez, 44 – were charged with strangling her in the cafe before transporting her body to south Lanarkshire.
But despite months of painstaking forensic work and thousands of statements from potential witnesses, nothing conclusively linked any of the men to Emma’s death or the place she was found.
Gallacher believes that is crucial. He said: “I had detailed directions when I first drove to this place and I still found it hard to find.
“Are we really meant to believe four Turks from the southside of Glasgow just stumbled upon it by chance?
“That they happened to drive out of Glasgow for almost an hour – more than 30 miles into the countryside – in the dark and dump a body at this hidden, hard-to-find place where, just by chance, Emma was taken by another man?”
Detectives interviewing Packer, who lives in Lanarkshire, repeatedly tried to find a connection between him and their Turkish suspects. But nothing linked him to them and nothing linked them to the woodland.
Packer often worked away from home but his then-wife and parents confirmed he was in Glasgow at the time Emma disappeared and had no obvious alibi.
Sources have claimed that in August 2007, at a briefing to police preparing to arrest the Turks, the officer in charge reacted furiously to what he perceived was scepticism about their guilt.
He is said to have started shouting and banged a folder of evidence, insisting: “What’s the problem here? Do you not believe us? The evidence is all in here.”
Gallacher added: “In all my years on the force, I have never heard of anything like that – a senior officer being forced to justify the righteousness of a proposed arrest.
“There was clearly disquiet and, perhaps now, we are beginning to understand why.”
It only takes them 15 minutes before they are out of the city and into the fields.
The group – two detective constables and Iain Packer – are in an unmarked police car and had left Cathcart police station just after the morning rush-hour, heading for the M74.
The motorway, the main route to Carlisle, takes them past Strathclyde Park and then into the fields and forestry of rural south Lanarkshire.
After 40 minutes, 30 miles or so, Packer asks the driver to leave the motorway at Junction 11, past the Happendon services on the sliproad, and drive through the village of Rigside and then into the countryside beyond.
Then turning again and again on the empty road lined by fields of sheep, he directs them eventually to a tight turn on to a farm road, a battered cattle-grid, broken red asphalt, deeply pot-holed and lined on both sides with dense, towering pines.
After a quarter of a mile, he tells them to stop at a turning point by a silver farm gate. It is pin-drop silent, the middle of nowhere.
It is an isolated, eerie place – even if the detectives had not known the body of Emma Caldwell had been found here, naked and strangled, almost two years before.
“This is it,” Packer tells the detectives. “This is where I brought the prostitutes I picked up in Glasgow.”
Back at the police station in the southside of Glasgow, Packer admits Emma Caldwell was the first woman he had taken there and that he had returned with her up to five times more.
But she had, he insists, not given him any trouble like some of the others.
Yes, he admits, he lost his temper with some after they refused to strip naked and agree to have sex outdoors but not Emma.
By now, the detectives know Packer is an habitual user of prostitutes, once said to have been infatuated with Emma.
They have spoken to several of the women he paid for sex – some of them also driven across Lanarkshire to this silent wood .
Since Emma’s body was found, Packer has already been interviewed five times about her death.
But this session, interrupted by the drive, on Tuesday, March 13, 2007, would be the last.
Packer is never questioned about Emma again. Never arrested. Never charged. Never known about. Until today.
Iain Packer was stopped while kerb crawling on June 21, 2005, when officers took his details and arranged to interview him the next day, seven weeks after Emma's body was found.
THE FIRST INTERVIEWJune 22, 2005
Packer has not, he tells police, picked up a girl from the city’s red light area for about a year.
Before that, over the previous five years, he has had sex with about 15 prostitutes, preferring blonde women in their early 20s who did not look like drug users.
He tells detectives that he may have seen Emma in the red light district seven or eight months before but then cuts short the interview saying he must get back to work.
The detectives note his desire to end the interview coincides with speaking about Emma.
THE SECOND INTERVIEWJuly 5, 2005
Packer changes his story, sayinghe’d seen Emma three or four times next to a bus stop in Cadogan Street in the last three or four months and describes the clothes she usually wore. He says he had never paid for sex with her and didn’t know her name until seeing reports of her death on television.
THE THIRD INTERVIEW
July 19, 2005
Packer tells police he only takes prostitutes to an industrial estate near the east end of Glasgow.
He changes his story again. Now he says he last bought sex from a prostitute in May 2005.
THE FOURTH INTERVIEW
August 4, 2006
Packer says using prostitutes is a “buzz” and admits getting into &pound;30,000 of debt buying sex.
He also admits lying about knowing Emma and says he paid her for sex up to 11 times, the last time in 2004. He says they never went out of Glasgow and denies stalking her.
He admits taking another prostituteinto the Lanarkshire countryside and losing his temper when she refused to strip. He also admits taking other prostitutes to the same remote spot.
Finally, he admits taking Emma there and says he had been scared to admit it before in case he “got the blame for what happened to her”.
THE FIFTH INTERVIEW
October 27, 2006
Packer is asked if he had ever done work at the Turkish cafe in Bridge Street, Glasgow. He says he has never worked there or for any Turkishclients and has no Turkish friends.
THE FINAL INTERVIEW
March 13, 2007
He agrees to accompany detectives to the spot where he took prostitutes. He directs them to Roberton Woods, around 30 miles south of Glasgow.
Packer says he chanced upon the area while looking for places to haveoutdoor sex and Emma was the first woman he had ever taken there. He says he took her there up to six times.
Her body was found 70 yards from where he told the detectives to park.
Try your hand at our news quiz

