THE board which runs the college sector in Scotland’s largest city has been rocked by two high-profile resignations.
Professor Pamela Gillies, the principal of Glasgow Caledonian University, and Maureen McKenna, the education director of Glasgow City Council, have both stepped down amidst concerns over the way the board - led by former First Minister Henry McLeish - is being run.
Both Gillies and McKenna are understood to be concerned about Mr McLeish’s leadership of the Glasgow Colleges Regional Board.
It comes weeks after the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) called for an independent review of the board, which controls Glasgow’s three colleges.
The board was due to take over the administration of the &pound;80 million total funding for the sector in April, but the date has now been moved back to August after the SFC ruled the body was “far from ready”.
The resignations came when McLeish circulated a draft letter of complaint to board members about the way the issue was handled by SFC chief executive Laurence Howells.
In her letter of resignation to McLeish, seen by The Herald newspaper, McKenna said: “I have concerns about my role and and your role on the board.
“My concerns were made more acute by the draft letter of complaint to the SFC which you circulated for response.
“I cannot in good conscience add my name to that letter in any form. I believe it is not in the interest of the Glasgow colleges for the board to make a complaint such as this at this time.”
McKenna said the partnership between Glasgow schools and colleges was making life better for many disadvantaged young people and could do so much more in the future.
But she added: “I do not believe that the board is presently able to play a constructive role in that partnership.”
It is thought Gillies has similar concerns.
McLeish told the Herald he was disappointed but not surprised both directors had resigned.
He said: “They both make an enormous contribution to education in Glasgow and found themselves in a conflicted situation.
“I feel for and understand their position and believe it’s a great deal to do with what’s happened at Clyde.”
The row over the running of the Glasgow Colleges Regional Board comes at a time when further education in Glasgow has been embroiled in controversy.
The principal of Glasgow Clyde College Susan Walsh was suspended pending a review in February amidst concerns from local union leaders over a “perceived culture of fear and bullying”.
However, other members of staff defended Walsh and attacked the Clyde College board, for his handling of the issue.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

