A CRAZED woman held a knife to the face of a teenage lottery winner’s mum during a terrifying raid on her home.
Linda Restorick tried to lock herself in a bathroom to escape Natasha Stirling as she rampaged through her Edinburgh flat.
She was sprayed in the eyes with perfume then had a blade held against her cheek before being told: “You’re getting slashed, you know that”.
 Linda is the mother of Jane Park who scooped a &pound;1 million lotto bonanza aged just 17 . 
The break-in took place the night before a documentary about Jane called Teenage Millionaire: The Year I Won the Lottery was shown on the BBC.
Writing on Facebook just after the incident, Jane revealed she received a phone call telling her about the attack.
She said: “I got to my house in ten minutes to find the window smashed and my mum in bits.”
 Jane - who recently started working in a chippy as she was “bored spending money” - added the ordeal left her mum “petrified”. 
 

Stirling, 32, appeared at Edinburgh Sheriff Court yesterday to admit staging the bizarre and shocking home invasion on December 17.
The court heard Linda was in bed when she awoken by a woman shouting, “It’s Tasha Burns from round the corner. Linda, help me I’m in trouble”.
Scared Linda didn’t want to answer the door and listened as Stirling screamed through her letter box.
Then she could hear glass shattering and Stirling calling out, “I’m coming through the f****** window”.
Depute fiscal Lewis Crosbie said Linda frantically dialled for the police on her phone and locked herself in the toilet.
A 999 operator could hear an “extremely distressed” woman on the line and another female voice before it suddenly cut out.
Mr Crosbie said Stirling managed to reach Linda and sprayed her in the eyes with an “unknown perfume substance”.
She then held a two to three-inch blade against her cheek and threatened to use the weapon.
The unhinged raider stole Linda’s handbag, containing &pound;630 and bank cards, and demanded her PIN number, which she was given.
After Stirling fled the home in the city’s Prestonfield area, police were called to a pub in the Jock’s Lodge area after patrons had complained Stirling was trying to sell apparently stolen laptops from a rucksack. Officers attended and found Stirling with the computers and a bank card belonging to Linda.
Stirling pled guilty to resetting two laptops and other items including a portable hard drive which had been stolen during another break in at a property in Prestonfield on December 14.
She admitted assaulting Linda and breaking into her home to steal her possessions.
Nicholas Quilietti, 41, described as a prisoner at Addiewell jail in West Lothian, had a not guilty plea to the same charges accepted by the Crown.
Sheriff Frank Crowe said Stirling had “terrorised the lady”.
She was remanded in custody while sentencing was deferred for reports.
 Big-hearted Jane last month stepped in to try to make a cancer-hit boy’s dream holiday to Florida a reality . 
She offered financial aid to help desperately ill Leon Rendle, 15, take a trip to Universal Studios in Orlando after insurance firms refused to cover him.
The teenager, who hit the jackpot with her first ever lottery ticket, was followed by TV crew followed her for 12 months for last year’s documentary.
The film showed her trying to build a better relationship with her mum by taking her on holiday to Benidorm.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

