SCOTLAND’S top police officer Sir Stephen House faced embarrasing criticism from his own officers yesterday when they applauded and cheered attacks on his leadership.
The chief constable came under more fire from on the second anniversary of Police Scotland ’s creation and faced questions over his future.
He’s been criticised in recent months over the stop and search debacle and the controversy surrounding armed officers .
And during the Scottish Police Federation’s conference Trump Turnberry resort in Ayrshire yesterday, delegate Scott Meechan delivered what the host hailed as the “killer question” after he compared First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to a football club chairman who publicly backs a beleaguered manager.
To applause and laughter, he said: “The First Minister recently stated she has full confidence in the Chief Constable.
“Should Team Police Scotland expect a new manager?”
Nicola Sturgeon stressed she had confidence in Sir Stephen but added: “No Chief Constable is or ever can be a law unto themselves.”
All four party leaders addressed the conference and Scottish Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie openly called into question House’s ability to lead the force.
In a blistering attack, he said: “The system is clearly broken.
“We don’t have confidence in the Chief Constable.
“It is difficult to have confidence in him.
“If he doesn’t restore that confidence, if he doesn’t change his way then he is going to have to change his job because he can’t carry on like this.”
Scottish Tory leader Ruth Davidson said there were questions about Sir Stephen’s leadership but stressed she was not calling for his head.
 

She added: “I worry, I genuinely worry, that some of the issues that have been raised in the transformation of Police Scotland have eroded the trust that ministers have in the leadership and has eroded the trust the public has with the police in Scotland.”
Labour leader Jim Murphy said his main concern is that the Scottish Police Authority is not strong enough to hold Police Scotland to account.
Addressing the concerns about the Chief Constable, he said: “It is about leading the organisation and taking people with them.
“It’s not about the often confused and contradictory testimony that comes from Police Scotland to the Scottish Parliament.
“It’s about not denying there are targets when there are obviously targets.
“It’s not that degree of secrecy and lack of transparency when it came to arming police officers
“It shouldn’t lead to a public outcry before there is a change in policy.
“These things should be done by consent.
“I think sometimes it has been done in a very headstrong manner rather than by consent.
“Things need to change and things need to improve.”
 

Earlier the party leaders were given ten minutes each to address the conference.
And Rennie used the opportunity to blast Sir Stephen’s leadership.
He said: “There is one issue that really concerns me and this is an issue of trust and integrity.
“It is essential that Police Scotland maintains the trust of police across Scotland, trust that you have worked so hard to build.
“But I’m afraid that integrity and trust in the leadership of Police Scotland is on the line.
“Too often we have been told one thing, for another thing to turn out to be the truth.
“We were told in parliament that non statutory stop and search for under 12s would end. Not true.
“The Chief Constable told Parliament that he had been forced by the information commissioner to release inaccurate statistics. Not true.
“A senior officer told parliament that only 18 children under the age of 12 had been stopped and searched. Not true.
“The Chief Constable said that no guns would be carried by officers on routine duties. Not true.
“And he said there was no target-driven culture. You all know that is not true.”
Delegates laughed and applauded before Rennie added: “He needs to be straight - with us, with you, and with the public.
“He needs to have clarity, he needs to be honest, he needs to be truthful, he needs to change his ways.”
Rennie’s blistering attack drew cheers and applause from delegates.
In response to Rennie’s comments a spokeswoman for the Chief Constable said: “While the General Election campaign may be underway, we published our third annual police plan today, focusing on what communities across Scotland want from Police Scotland.
“We will carry on focusing on that.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

