A MUM has told how doctors used Viagra in a desperate bid to save her dying baby.
Medics tried the treatment as they battled to save the life of three-week-old Lewis McKain, who was born with a serious heart condition.
Mum Cheryl and dad Joe had already said their goodbyes to Lewis when doctors told her that injecting Viagra into the bloodstream might save his life.
He then became the first baby in the UK to receive Sildenafil – better known as Viagra – intravenously.
But sadly, they faced the heartbreak of having to say goodbye to their baby a second time when the treatment failed.
Cheryl said: “He was so tired, and hadn’t opened his eyes in days.
“Not even a blink, but when they told us it hadn’t worked, we went in and he opened his wee eyes and just looked at us for the first time in days and just shut his eyes and never opened them again.
“Just like he knew, just like he was saying, ‘It’s all right’.
“I wanted to take him home to die, he hadn’t been home, but they said he would not make it out of the lift.
“We got five hours with him, with no life support, we hadn’t held him like that since he was six days old.
“We just had him in between us on the bed, cuddling him.
“Then we fell asleep. For me, that’s the highlight of having a baby, that whole bit with everyone &shy;snuggled up on the bed and the baby in between you.
“I just woke with this start and looked at him and I knew he was just about to take his last breath.
“I woke up Joe and we just looked at him and he just went. I know it sounds crazy but it feels like he woke me and said, ‘Mum, I need to go’.”
 

Cheryl, 29, says she “wanted to go with” baby Lewis when told her son would die. But she kept going for the sake of her other children, Tyler, nine and five-year-old Carys.
She and husband Joe, 31, from &shy;Cumbernauld, have now started raising money to support young siblings facing the same situation as their children.
Despite an uneventful &shy;pregnancy, Cheryl suspected something was wrong with Lewis just days before she was due to be induced.
Her anxiety was so bad, the doctors decided to give her an emergency ceasarean section. And even after he was born on July 10 last year, the nurse refused to accept her son was suffering from little more than a common condition known as TTN.
Six days after being born, he was rushed to Yorkhill Hospital when his heart swelled to twice it’s size, leaving him with a heartbeat of 220.
Lewis was eventually diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy, which is caused by high pressure in the lungs.
Despite being placed on life-support, his condition failed to improve and the pair were given the news there was nothing more that could be done on August 1.
Cheryl said: “They said he took his tube out and by the time they put another tube in they knew he was not going to survive off the machine.
“You just never think something like this is going to happen. He was just so tiny.”
They were then given a ray of hope with the Viagra treatment – but when that failed they realised there was nothing more that could be done.
 

Lewis’s death left both Carys and Tyler shattered, and it is one of Cheryl’s biggest regrets they never got to hold their baby brother.
She now wants to help other families avoid that with Team Lewis, who have already raised nearly &pound;4000 to make life easier for families of sick babies with siblings.
Many of their ideas are being piloted in the Princess Royal at the Royal &shy;Infirmary, but they hope to roll them out to Glasgow’s other &shy;maternity units soon.
They have already donated carnival tickets to families, and DVD players to Yorkhill.
Cheryl said: “Our long term goal is to set up support for siblings in the hospital so there’s someone there to provide creative ways of explaining sick babies to brothers and sisters and some &shy;counselling for them.
“Everyone throughout this has been fantastic, but while there was plenty for the parents, there was nothing for brothers and sisters.”
● For more information about Team Lewis, go to www.facebook.com/TeamLewis14
LEWIS suffered from dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition that weakens the heart muscle.
His condition was particularly rare as it was in his right ventricle, making it harder to treat.
The heart chamber becomes expanded and weakened, making it harder to pump blood around the body.
This causes pulmonary hypertension, which raises blood pressure within the pulmonary arteries – the blood vessels that supply the lungs.
It was hoped the Sildenafil - the non-commerical name for the Viagra – would relax the muscle cells in the walls of the blood vessels to his lungs, allowing them to become wider.
This would have reduced the pressure in these blood vessels and allowed blood to flow more easily through them.
Sadly, the treatment did not work for Lewis.
