 
This live blog is now closed.
The helicopter has landed safely at Aberdeen Airport.
It comes after an emergency alert was raised while the chopper was over the North Sea headed towards the oil rigs.
A spokesman for Aberdeen Airport said the pilot had returned following a 'technical issue.'
To recap on our updates scroll down.
A helicopter has declared an emergency as it flew off the coast of Scotland this morning.
The Bristow BHL78R was working off the coast of Aberdeen when it reported an emergency to air traffic authorities.
it is not yet know what work the helicopter was doing or what the emergency is, however people on social media have suggested it could be linked to a north sea oil operation.
The emergency comes just a short while after two Ryanair passenger jets collided at Dublin Airport this morning.
No injuries were reported on either of the jets after the coming together on a taxiway but the incident caused delays to some departures, a spokesman for the airport said.
The planes involved were the 7.10am service to Edinburgh and the 7.15am flight to Zadar in Croatia.
It is unclear why the helicopter turned around after flying north towards the oil fields.
Dozens of helicopters a week fly from Aberdeen airport to rigs carrying hundreds of workers.

LIVE: Bristow Helicopter #BHL78R has declared an emergency off the coast of Scotland pic.twitter.com/JdkKvpIuBf - @NikPhillips666


 

From today private company Bristow has begun providing search and rescue (SAR) operations in the north-east of England and northern Scotland.
The RAF and Royal Navy service will be phased out completely across the UK over the next two years.
Capt Liz Forsyth, chief pilot of the Bristow's rescue service said the helicopters were better than the Sea Kings they were replacing and that the firm's crews would have the same attitude and skills as the RAF.
“We’re all set, we’re into our final preparations. The crews are ready, we’re excited about going on shift again,” she said.
Flight BHL78R has reportedly landed back at Aberdeen Airport.
It is unclear why the chopper changed course after flying over the North Sea in the direction of the oil fields.
Stay with us for live updates.

@italoslavo @airlivenet @NikPhillips666 Has now landed back at Aberdeen. #BHL78R


A spokesman for Aberdeen Airport said the helicopter had turned around after the pilot reported a 'technical issue.'
He said: &quot;It's called a 'local standby' which means that the pilot of the helicopter has contacted us to say it's a technical problem and turned back.
&quot;It's something we deal with on a regular basis there's no need for alarm,&quot; he said.
The helicopter has landed safely at Aberdeen Airport.
It comes after an emergency alert was raised while the chopper was over the North Sea headed towards the oil rigs.
A spokesman for Aberdeen Airport said the pilot had returned following a 'technical issue.'

