ORGANISERS of an annual beer festival are hoping to attract the crowds by offering 500 different ales.The Paisley Beer Festival kicked off last night at the Town Hall.Over the nextPeople of Renfrewshire are getting ready for the four day Paisley Beer Festival that has been running for a consecutive 28 years. The event will begin at 5pm on Wednesday the 22nd of April and will come to a close on Saturday the 25th at midnight. It will be held in Paisley Town Hall situated in Abbey Close just a 5 minute walk from Paisley Gilmour Street train station.On site the festival are selling the biggest selection of beers in Scotland with over 500 different brands of beers, ciders and meads from Scotland, England and a number of Foreign countries including Germany, Holland and America. A new addition to this year's festival is the diversity of wine which hasn't been available previously.Organiser Derek Moore say's &quot;There's something for everyone!&quot;The festival will include entertainment from Caledonian Deuchars Pipe Band that has played at the event for 10 years running and holds a great reputation.This year the festival have branched out and gained access to the upstairs of the Town Hall and have also placed a marquee for more seating after having over 4200 people attend in 2014. People pay at the door and receive a glass that they drink out of for the rest of the evening, if they return when the next day opens with their glass they're eligible for free entry if there's space in the hall.Unlike previous years where they've only have one food stall the event will coincide with a food festival organised by Renfrewshire Council. It will take place on the Saturday from 12pm till 6pm where there will be a variety of stalls selling Scotland's finest foods and a selection from global cuisines. Also situated at the Food festival is an assortment of workshops for people to get involved in making foods including chocolate, pizza and ice-cream. There's also a workshop for the science of food where people can attend and join in the activities. People also have the opportunity to take part in the art workshop where you can roll up your sleeves and show off your creativity with food art.The festival is run by the Renfrewshire branch of Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) which has 40 members out of the 100,000 CAMRA members across the UK. Their goal is to promote UK brewery's that produce cask condition ales. The event is funded by VISITSCOTLAND and EVENTSCOTLAND and is taking place as part of The Year of Food and Drink Scotland which is celebrating the excellent produce Scotland has to offer.