 RESIDENTS of Castlemilk in Glasgow have railed against ConDem Government cuts and welfare reforms for “ crippling our communities ”. 
Today they will come together in a day of action that will showcase local music as well as appealing for foodbank donations.
The event is organised by “Castlemilk Against Austerity”, a community group established to stand up against the cuts and boost local morale by letting the vulnerable in society know they are not alone.
Catherine Milligan, one of the organisers, said: “Pro austerity and big business politicians have let us down and their policies have created this situation of savage cuts, dire poverty and rising inequality. They argue amongst themselves not about what is better for people but how to implement austerity, increase the profits of bosses and make the rich richer. We say ‘no more’.”
The group believes a recent spate of benefit sanctions that have been imposed on people are having a major effect on the community.
CAA have also been backed over the sanction issue by SNP candidate for the area Stewart
McDonald, who said: “There was the food bank in Castlemilk that ran out of food and had to turn away up to 30 people because they physically had no food to give to them. That for me is the end result, of not just the benefit sanctions but the whole approach to welfare.”
 

The local foodbank closure made the news recently when they ran out of food and had to close their doors. It was, however, a major springboard and motivation for the group to get active.
 
Furious locals believed the closure was the direct result of the government’s ongoing austerity programme and welfare reforms, and the benefit sanction system they believe is hell bent on targeting the most vulnerable in society.
One local said: “It’s shocking what people are going through in this day and age, I don’t think a lot of people realised that Castlemilk even had a foodbank, never mind one so much in demand it couldn’t cope.”
CAA hope the campaigning music event will trigger a wider movement of local people to make a stand against five years of constant cuts.
The “Castlemilk Against Austerity” event today (thurs) in The Birgidale Complex, will showcase the best of the local musical talent including singer/songwriters Thomas McGuiness,
Jade Fawkes, Billy Bates and Shaun O’Leary who will be performing on the night. There will also be speakers and a collection of non perishable foods for the local foodbank at the event that is not aligned to any particular political party.
Catherine said: “It’s about local people coming together but also having different ways to engage people politically, like the music event to create a space for self-expression.
“It’s also an ideal time to let our prospective MPs know that the days are gone when they can scoot off to parliament and forget who they represent we want a forum that will stand up to
 

the worst social policies that are crippling our communities we also want to broaden these ideas beyond Castlemilk”.
 In 2009 there was only one food bank in Scotland. In 2014 an estimated 10,500 people visited the Trussell Trust’s 48 Scottish food banks . 
Recent school league tables showed Castlemilk’s two high schools to be
among the top three most deprived schools in the country, with up to 90% of pupils considered to be living in the top level of deprivation.
Tom Harris, MP for Glasgow South since 2001, has called for the benefit sanction system – which many blame for the increase in dependence on foodbanks, to be looked at and reformed.
He said: “The Labour is party is not saying that we are against all sanctions but where sanctions exist it should be moderate and they should be effective.
“We are in favour of fairness and the sanctions regime at the moment is being exploited and it’s broken. It needs to be completely reformed.”
SNP candidate Stewart Mcdonald claimed a strong Nationalist influence in Westminster would look to get rid the sanctions altogether.
He said: “It’s a system that I don’t understand in terms of what it is supposed to achieve. All I can see it achieving is that it demoralises people, it punishes people for the most ridiculous offences if you want to call it that, you know people being five minutes late for an appointment with the jobcentre and being left with no money for two weeks as a result.
 FindMySeat 
“What is needed is a welfare system that will support people who can work into work. And do that at a pace that is right for them as opposed to this one size fits all and you are guilty until you are proven innocent approach that we have got at the minute.”
Trade Union and Socialist Coalition candidate Brian Smith, said of the cuts: “I think they are another example of the Tory government aided by the establishment going after poor people.
“They should be creating jobs for young people and unemployed people rather than taking their benefits off them when they can’t find any work.
“Sanctions have increased over 3000% over the last two or three years in Scotland alone and that has taken out &pound;40 million of peoples benefits.
“That shouldn’t happen and people should be supported when they are unemployed and given proper opportunities to get back into work.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

