IT was watching kids curl up and go to sleep in a Kenyan classroom that hit Brian McPhee hardest. Sleeping in their school because they were too scared to close their eyes at night.
This footballer turned firefighter gave up his holidays last year to travel to Africa to try to make a make a difference to people’s lives. Little did he know how attached he would become to the children of Nakuru.
After a two-week charity assignment to work as a classroom assistant in a church-run school, this dad of two, who had been immersed in the hard world of football for almost 20 years as a prolific striker with Airdrie, Livingston and Hamilton, had to return to his job as a Glasgow fireman.
But on the flight home the 44-year-old knew he’d return to the children he’d left behind. Kids who now had Celtic tops donated by pals in the game. And goalie gloves from former Partick Thistle keeper Kenny Arthur. Boys and girls who had nothing before he and fellow Scots Eddie McGaw and Lori Gallagher, joined by an English girl, Laura Birtles, arrived at their school last November.
Now McPhee is trying to raise the &pound;1700 he needs to go back to help a little bit more. This time he’ll be more ready for the sights that moved him to tears on occasion.
He said: “It was hard but it was the experience of a lifetime. It all started when I played with the Dukla Pumpherston charity team and we all got a text from Eddie asking if anybody would be interested in going to Kenya to do some charity work.
“My own kids are now older, 18 and 25, so that wasn’t holding me back and it just fell in with my holidays. I contacted Eddie and spoke to my partner, Jennifer, telling her I really wanted to do something like this. She just said, ‘Go for it’.
 

“I wasn’t aware I’d be going to work in a school but I knew I was going to Nakuru in Kenya to work with children. I was basically a teacher’s assistant for two weeks. But I did a lot of football-related stuff with the kids. A lot of my friends donated kit and equipment. They were soon running around in football strips and training bibs, kicking the small footballs I’d taken with me.”
But it wasn’t all fun and football. The squalor the children lived in shocked him. As did the lives they were forced to lead. They didn’t just come to school, known as the Walk Centre, to learn. It was also their sanctuary.
He said: “There were 150 of them in the school and they all lived on landfill sites around the town. Rubbish dumps basically.
“The school is a release for them because of the conditions they live in. I must admit there were times I had to have a few minutes on my own to have a wee cry.
“The first couple of days went past in a blur because of all the excitement of just arriving and everything being new to us. But when you settle down and begin to realise the squalor that these kids are growing up in, it’s hard to take.
“Every day they went for a sleep about two o’clock in the afternoon. The teacher told me a lot of the kids come from single parent families and most of their mothers are prostitutes. The mothers go out at night, leaving the kids on their own, and they are so scared they don’t sleep.
“So for a couple of hours in the afternoon they get the chance to catch up on their sleep for an hour in a safe environment.”
And yet their attitude to life still makes McPhee smile. He added: “They were such lovely children. Their smiles melted all our hearts. One day we thought, ‘Let’s do something different’. So we went out and bought 150 bars of chocolate to give them all a wee treat.
“Half the kids hadn’t tasted chocolate in their lives and they absolutely loved it. But they still had the heart to break a bit off and offer it to us. That just finished me off again –I had to go to a wee office for another cry.
“You need &pound;1700 to go but last year I raised more than &pound;2000 and rather than just donating the extra money to the charity, we took it over with us to see how we could use it to help people when we got there – &pound;300 goes a long way in Kenya. We asked the school what they wanted done to make things a little easier.
 

“They told us they needed the toilets cleaned up but we took it a step further and put proper toilets in.
“There was a warehouse where we could buy the raw materials. We did the labouring while we hired a local plumber and other local tradespeople. That meant the money was going into the community.
 “We also went to a local orphanage, St Jerome’s, and built them two new toilets and wash-hand basins. We bought two goats, so they’d have milk and at a local maternity hospital we handed out baby clothes. We know we were barely scratching the surface but even making a tiny difference is better than doing nothing. 
“That’s why I want to go back to the same school this November. I want to try to keep making that tiny difference.”
Brian McPhee has seen enough to know Bill Shankly was talking nonsense when he said: “Some people believe football is a matter of life and death. I can assure you it is much, much more important than that.” Shankly’s fellow Scot knows better.
*Anyone wishing to help Brian reach his &pound;1700 target then please go to https://fundrazr.com/campaigns/fyfv6
 
