ONE of Scotland’s top young acting talents is exposed today as a crack cocaine and heroin dealer.
Nick Ikunda, 27, has been tipped for stardom after being named Best Actor at this month’s BAFTA Scotland New Talent Awards.
But the  can reveal that his whole life is an act.
Between film roles and auditions, he ruins lives by peddling rocks of crack and tenner bags of heroin to desperate addicts on Glasgow’s south side.
Known as “Kash” on the streets, Ikunda can make more than &pound;1000 a day from the vile trade.
We covertly filmed him taking money for crack.
One drug user told our investigators how Ikunda sold him crack just days after he rubbed shoulders with Peter Mullan and Muriel Gray at the BAFTA awards.
And another addict said: “He splits his time between two lives and has two sets of friends – the guys he’s involved with through his acting, and his gangster pals.
“Very few of his customers will even know about his BAFTA win.”
The addict added: “My big weakness is crack. Once you’ve tried it, you just want more and more.
“It wrecks your life. You don’t care what you have to do to get money to get more.
“Kash knows this. He doesn’t look like he touches the stuff himself.
“It’s just a money-maker for him. That’s what makes me sick. He’ll keep selling and selling until you have no money then phone you back later and ask if you want more.
“What angers me is that he doesn’t have to do this. He’s a clever guy and he can get a proper job.
“But he prefers to make easy money pushing crack.”
 

The addict said Ikunda brags of links to London gangsters and sells heroin as well as crack.
He explained: “He went to Govan High School, which is tough, but he was trendy and popular so it was easy for him to make contacts.
“He still has contacts in London that he gets drugs from.
“He knows crack addicts will sometimes use heroin to bring them down from the effects. The withdrawal can be terrible.”
Ikunda is active around the Shawbridge high flats in the Shawlands area of Glasgow.
We followed him as he dropped off drugs around Glasgow in the days after his BAFTA win.
And we caught him red-handed by posing as a potential customer, ringing his mobile under an assumed name and arranging to buy a &pound;20 rock of crack.
 Ikunda, a talented footballer, arranged to meet us beside a five-a-side pitch where he regularly plays with  his mates. 
He arrived in a sporty grey Volkswagen Golf and phoned to say he was ready to do the deal in the car park.
Ikunda told our man: “I can give you one rock for 20 quid but it’s 30 quid for two, so you’d be getting the other one half-price.
“I can’t do it any cheaper because there’s not much about just now.”
We phoned Ikunda again yesterday to ask if he could set up another deal, and he urged our investigator to buy in bulk to get a better price.
He said: “Six rocks would normally be &pound;120 but you’re going to get it for a discount price, which would be &pound;90.”
We then asked if he could supply us with heroin, known on the streets as “brown”.
He replied: “Uh-huh, I can maybe speak to my man about that too, yeah.”
 

Days before, Ikunda had given a newspaper interview to bask in the glory of his BAFTA award.
He won for his role in short film Happy Together, the story of a homeless youth who forms a close bond with a lonely old woman.
 Ikunda posed grinning with Peter Mullan at the ceremony and will  soon be starring alongside him in  Hec McAdam, a road movie about a homeless man from Scotland who heads for London. 
He told the interviewer: “Peter Mullan is a great guy. We had a good time and I asked him a few questions and he gave me some advice.”
He added: “Actors like Peter and James McAvoy inspire me because they have worked hard to get to where they are without a lot of help or money.
“It’s a difficult industry to break into but I write screenplays too just in case. Basically, I’m writing myself a job.
“You sit on the sidelines waiting for parts that don’t come that often. And when they do, you have a roomful of people doing the same thing. You have to work hard, but I’m willing to do that.”
Astonishingly, Ikunda also claimed in the interview that he moved to Glasgow from London to escape a life of crime.
His parents fled to the UK capital from the war-torn Democratic Republic of Congo.
But Ikunda said: “I had to leave London. The peer pressure and environment wasn’t good.
“There’s a gang culture there and you can get mixed up in things young boys shouldn’t get mixed up in.
“Some of the boys I went to school with now have criminal records. I could have been one of those boys. I didn’t want to leave London but maybe it was a blessing in disguise.”
Ikunda also claimed that being black made it hard for him to make friends in Glasgow.
He said: “It was like going to this area where you were more like a display in the museum. Everybody is looking at you like a walking tourist attraction.
“I kind of lost touch with acting to begin with because I was just trying to adjust to living in Scotland.
“I already felt separated because I was black and I thought showing my passion for acting might separate me from my peers even more.”
We phoned Ikunda to tell him we planned to expose his activities. There was silence at the other end of the line.
We invited him to our offices to discuss the case. He did not respond.

