All eyes were on First Minister of Scotland and leader of the SNP Nicola Sturgeon as she launched our manifesto for the forthcoming General Election earlier this week.
Our message is clear – we wish to end austerity and its punishing effects on the most vulnerable in our society, and our promise was distinct – we want to do this by protecting public services and increasing spending in real terms each year while continuing to reduce the deficit.
In her speech, Nicola Sturgeon was not only offering an alternative future to the people of Scotland, but also an opportunity for a new progressive kind of politics for everyone across the UK.
Austerity is hurting people throughout these islands. We wish to ensure that Scotland’s voice is heard but that doesn’t mean we can’t also be friends to the poorest and most vulnerable in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. We can and will work with other progressive parties at Westminster who wish to improve the lives of hardworking families across this country.
We also have a chance to work in Westminster to keep Labour honest – working with them while ensuring that they don’t simply put forward another form of austerity.
In terms of policies, there is substantial common ground. Whether it’s reinstating the 50p tax rate, scrapping the &quot;bedroom tax&quot; or ending exploitative zero-hours contracts, there are plenty of policy areas Labour can work alongside the SNP.
At the opposition leaders’ debate last week, Nicola Sturgeon took the opportunity to put that key question to Ed Miliband – will Labour work with us to lock the Tories out? It seems to me like it should be an easy one to answer; if Miliband refuses, does he really think Labour will be forgiven for letting the Tories back in?
If Ed chooses to subject the UK to another five years of David Cameron in Downing Street I could see it being the end of Labour not just in Scotland, but throughout the UK.
I’ve visited England a few of times over the past weeks – since the SNP and Nicola Sturgeon were first given offered a place on a UK-wide platform in the leaders' debates. While I was there I was approached time and time again by people in England telling me they wish they could vote for the SNP in their constituency.
It’s becoming clear that people across the UK are not scared of the SNP. Myself and my colleagues in the SNP have not been met with fear at the prospect of the Scotland finally having a voice at Westminster by English audiences.
Rather, it’s the Westminster political parties are doing their best to orchestrate a campaign of hostility towards our party. However, I am not convinced that wheeling out Malcolm Rifkind, Norman Tebbit and John Major will do their cause any good. 
We have seen the resurgence of &quot;Project Fear&quot; and scaremongering tactics in the face of polls predicting an SNP landslide in Scotland. Between Boris Johnson comparing the First Minister to King Herod in the Telegraph and Paddy Ashdown’s histrionic predictions of SNP fire-raising, it’s becoming increasingly obvious that we’ve got them shaken. Good.
***
I HAVE been devastated over the past week by the news of hundreds more North Africans dying in the Mediterranean while attempting to escape war and hardship. This is an issue that the Scottish Government has raised with the UK government since last year, when the search and rescue mission Mare Nostrum was first withdrawn - and as a government we will continue to urge European nations to do more to help the world’s refugees.
Earlier this week the SNP MEP Alyn Smith drafted a public letter, addressed to the Presidents of the European Commission and European Council, which has been signed by NGO execs, charity spokespeople and religious leaders alike.
This cannot and must not become a political issue, it is a humanitarian crisis and every loss of life while we fail to take appropriate action shames Europe. My heart goes out to all those affected, here’s to a brighter future for refugees across the world.
