Venue: Crucible Theatre, Sheffield Dates: 18 April-4 May
Coverage: Watch live on BBC TV, HD, Red Button, Connected TV, online, tablets, mobiles and BBC Sport app. Full details here.
 Four-time champion John Higgins was knocked out of the World Snooker Championship after losing 13-9 to China's Ding Junhui. 
 And another ex-Crucible winner  Graeme Dott  also bid farewell to the 2015 tournament following a 13-5 defeat by Essex's  Stuart Bingham.  
 Ding, the world number three, started the day 9-7 up on the Scot before taking three of the first four frames. 
 Higgins tried to come back into it, but Ding held his nerve to advance. 
 Ding believes he is playing a level of snooker that could help him win his first world title. 
 &quot;I hope I'm going to win the tournament. I believe I can - I have the form to win any tournament,&quot; said the former Masters and UK champion, who reached the semi-finals in Sheffield in 2011. 
 &quot;I think I can play better.&quot; 
 Higgins, who had led early in the match, admitted that Ding is a real challenger. 
 &quot;Ding's cue ball control reminds you of Steve Davis in his prime - he makes everything look ridiculously easy. He made a couple of pressure clearances which mean he is probably ready to win the world title,&quot; the 39-year-old told BBC Sport. 
 &quot;He has grown up and is more at ease within himself and seems ready to tough it out.&quot; 
 Elsewhere, 2010 champion  Neil Robertson  produced some exceptional snooker to take a 6-2 lead over two-time runner-up  Ali Carter,  while Northern Ireland's  Mark Allen  leads  Barry Hawkins  9-7. 
 Australian Robertson knocked in three breaks over 50, two tons and potted a superb red from the top cushion in the final frame of the session to take a commanding lead. 
 Earlier, Bingham, who reached the last eight in 2013, needed only two frames to seal his berth - achieving victory in style with a break of 104. 
 &quot;It is a fantastic feeling to beat someone of Graeme's level 13-5,&quot; said the 38-year-old. 
 &quot;I made a 64 in the first frame and that settled me down and a calmness stayed me with throughout the match.&quot; 
 Dott, who the title in 2006, said: &quot;I never really felt it was a 13-5 game. Last night I could have won the last two frames, but losing the second-to-last frame killed me. 
 &quot;It's not nice to lose like that.&quot; 
