Venue: Crucible Theatre, Sheffield Dates: 18 April-4 May
Coverage: Watch live on BBC TV, HD, Red Button, Connected TV, online, tablets, mobiles and BBC Sport app. Full details here.
 Defending champion Mark Selby suffered a surprise defeat by qualifier Anthony McGill in the second round of the World Championship at the Crucible. 
 Scot McGill, 24, led 10-6 going into the final session of their best-of-25 match, meaning he needed just three frames to reach the quarter-finals. 
 He took the first with a break of 68 and although Selby took the next frame, an 87 break put McGill 12-7 ahead. 
 Selby threatened a fightback but McGill secured a 13-9 win in the 22nd frame. 
 McGill will next face the winner of the match between Joe Perry and Shaun Murphy. 
 &quot;I have no embarrassment in losing and not going on to defend it,&quot; said Selby. &quot;He played fantastic all match.&quot; 
 It was a hugely impressive performance by McGill, who has looked confident and assured at the World Championship so far despite this being his first appearance at the tournament. 
 &quot;I am over the moon. I can't believe I have beaten the world champion at the Crucible and I am ecstatic,&quot; said McGill. 
 Reaction: McGill can win world title - Selby 
 &quot;No-one was expecting me to win, I was not expecting myself to win, I just wanted to put up a decent fight. I thought I played pretty well and to beat Mark 13-9 it is a dream.&quot; 
 For Selby, his defeat continues the 'Crucible Curse' - no first-time champion has ever completed a successful defence of the title. 
 Last year, he fought back from 10-5 down to beat Ronnie O'Sullivan in the final but he was never given the chance to turn this match around. 
 McGill was in determined mood from the first frame of the final session, recording a superb 68 break. 
 Selby took the next frame but an 87 from McGill ensured he went 12-7 clear and one frame away from victory. 
 He had the chance to secure victory before the mid-session interval but missed a red, allowing Selby back in and he duly took the 20th frame. England's number one then hit a confidence-enhancing break as he made 101 to momentarily threaten a fight back. 
 However, McGill held his nerve to pot a tricky red to the middle that set him on his way to an 82 and victory. 
 In other second-round action,  John Higgins  trails  Ding Junhui  9-7 after the second session. 
 China's Ding turned around his match with four-time champion Higgins after an impressive second-session display. 
 Ding had started Friday's action two frames behind Scotland's Higgins, who led after the first session 5-3 having at one point been 5-1 ahead. 
 However, the former world number one has got better and better as the tournament has progressed and led six frames to Higgins' two on Friday. 
 He took the lead for the first time in the penultimate frame of the day after a break of 92, before taking the 16th to leave him needing just four frames for victory. The match resumes at 10:00 BST on Saturday. 
 &quot;All of a sudden, Ding looks like he is getting stronger in the matches,&quot; said six-time world champion Steve Davis. 
 &quot;Perhaps he has truly come of age as a champion. There is a long way to go, but he must be delighted.&quot; 
 Elsewhere, England's  Stuart Bingham  is in a strong position to reach the quarter-finals as he moved into an 11-5 lead over former champion  Graeme Dott  at the end of the second session. 
 Trailing 6-2 at the resumption of play on Friday, Scotland's Dott claimed the first two frames to get within two of Bingham, who then took five of the next six and needs to win just two frames on Saturday to progress. 
 Finally, Northern Ireland's  Mark Allen  leads England's  Barry Hawkins  5-3 after their second-round match got under way. 
 Allen won the first two frames before Hawkins retaliated to draw level. The pair then claimed one frame each before Allen sealed the final two frames to hold the advantage going into Saturday's second session. 
