HOLIDAYMAKERS from Scotland can pay up to four times as much for room upgrades as families from England, we can reveal.
An upgraded room can cost up to &pound;324 more when flying from Edinburgh than it does from Birmingham.
And that’s for holidays departing on the same day, to the same destination, with the same tour operator.
Consumer watchdogs are up in arms about the charges – and are urging travellers to shop around for the best deals.
SNP Transport Minister Derek Mackay said: “This is a bizarre and unfair charge on Scottish holidaymakers that deserves closer attention.
“The holiday operators must explain and remove this charge immediately.
“It compounds the existing UK Government’s unfair Air Passenger Duty that Scots and Scottish-bound passengers are forced to fork out for.”

We compared the cost of a holiday to Sharm El Sheikh in Egypt with Thomson for two people departing on May 30.
We chose identical packages departing from Glasgow, Edinburgh, Birmingham, Manchester and Luton for 14 nights to the Sensatori Resort.
But things started to hot up when we looked at the price of room upgrades – to a family room with whirlpool bath or a Swim Up family room, which has a pool right outside.
The cost to upgrade when travelling from Edinburgh was &pound;414 for the whirlpool room. But you could book the same deal from Birmingham for &pound;90.
The Swim Up family room, on the other hand, cost &pound;526 from Edinburgh but &pound;202 from Birmingham – a &pound;324 hike when departing from the capital.
 

Similarly, if you booked with Thomson for Paphos in Cyprus at the Aphrodite Hills resort, the cost of upgrading to a family room with a sea view was &pound;452. That’s based on two people travelling for a fortnight departing June 17 from Edinburgh.
Yet if you booked from Luton, it cost &pound;224 for the same upgrade – saving &pound;228.
Steve Nowottny, of MoneySavingExpert, urged consumers to book carefully.
He said: “The cost of package holidays can vary massively – there are a huge number of variables which affect the total. Timing is key and even identical packages can be sold at very different prices.
“The key is to benchmark a decent price on the web using the major package holiday listing sites – then haggle, haggle and haggle.
“Call travel agents and the tour operators directly and see if they can beat the best online price.
“With skill and a little bit of luck, it’s possible to shave hundreds of pounds off some deals.”
Thomson said supplements can be cheaper from Glasgow than Manchester, depending on the departure date.

Their spokesman added: “We operate a flexible pricing model. Therefore, prices can fluctuate throughout the year due to supply and demand.
“At times, we will offer incentives to support specific routes – this can include extra discounts on some room types.
“We are always competitively priced and ensure that any discounts are applied based on demand throughout the year across all the regions that we operate from.”
The room upgrade charges are revealed after Scots have endured decades of frustration over flight supplements.
Tour operators claim the extra fees from airports north of the Border are simply due to longer flight times.
But the reality is that Scots can pay as much as 30 per cent more than those flying from England on the same holiday.


