ALMOST 70 years ago, I voted for the first time in a British General Election, at the age of 22.
It was summer 1945 and World War II in Europe had just ended. But the smell of death and destruction lingered on like rotting rubbish.
I was still a serving member of the RAF and part of the Allied occupation forces in Hamburg, Germany.
I remember feeling as lucky as a lottery winner to have survived both the war and the cruel economic depression that had preceded it.
I felt I had a duty to vote as a sign of respect for all those who had been killed in battles or air raids across Britain.
Coming from the working class, my relief at having outlived both economic austerity and Hitler wasn’t unique.
Nor was my desire at the war’s end to demand a better life, because all of my RAF mates felt the same.
We came from different parts of Britain, but our childhoods had been similar – we had all known extreme poverty.
Whether from Glasgow, Cardiff, Belfast, or in my case Barnsley, Yorkshire, we had identical upbringings in extreme austerity.
And it’s that shared experience of hunger which made the 1945 general election the most important election of my generation’s lives.
It would determine whether we were to live like slaves to a barbaric economic austerity that left millions destitute, or as a free people given an equal share of our country’s economic bounty.
Now at 92, my life is reaching its final destination, but I see this election as just as important as 1945. Growing up in the slums of Yorkshire in the 1930s tells me that we can only survive the calamity of flat wages, reduced social services and diminished expectations created by Cameron and his Coalition if all our nations in Britain stand united against the Tories.
Lately, I have seen a recurrence of wedge politics and unbridled nationalism. Nationalism is wonderful, but it can also turn toxic if not cultivated by good sense.
I’ve cheered Labour on as they created the NHS and built affordable homes.
I’ve also watched Tories like Margaret Thatcher impose harsh economic and social cruelty on Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and England and call it progress.
And I have seen, to my dismay, Labour stumble and lose their way, like when they helped cause mayhem in Iraq whilst ignoring their heartlands like Scotland and Yorkshire.
However, over the past five years, I have witnessed Labour recapturing their spirit of 1945.
They have fought a strong battle against the Tory Government, corporate tax-avoiders and the well-funded but ideologically bankrupt right-wing media.
They have been a strong voice of reason and compassion during the cruel darkness of a Tory-induced austerity that is even more sinister than the Great Depression I endured.
 

And that’s because this modern financial famine has fractured our country and propelled the honourable and proud nation of Scotland to the precipice of independence.
As a Yorkshire man and a unionist, I am not alarmed by the SNP’s wish to separate from Britain. I welcome all debate about how these isles should be governed.
During the referendum, I kept quiet on the basis that Scottish independence was a matter for Scotland. I will do the same when the SNP call their next referendum, which may be sooner rather than later.
 However, I can’t keep silent about the threat to social justice caused by those Labour supporters who, from frustration, anger and despair will vote SNP, hoping their lives will improve by having a  nationalist party in Westminster. 
Yes, the SNP’s rhetoric on austerity is passionate. But I fear it is like the fabled pig and the poke story, because a strong vote for the SNP means fewer Labour MPs. And fewer Labour MPs means five more years of Tory austerity and Tory demagoguery against Scotland.
A collapse in Labour support in Scotland, along with the Conservative Party’s disdain for Scotland, is creating a perfect storm for the SNP independence mandate.
I don’t blame the SNP for taking advantage of both Labour’s wavering in Scotland or the Tories’ disregard for national unity, because that is the nature of separatist political parties. It’s the Tories I fear. They will stop at nothing to win this election, including aiding and abetting the cause of independence through their economic austerity policy.
If you are a Labour supporter who is thinking of voting SNP, ask yourself how voting against Labour and helping ensure Cameron remains PM will end austerity.
A landslide of SNP MPs virtually guarantees that Scotland will be saddled with a Tory minority government propped up by the Lib Dems and Northern Ireland’s DUP, who are a party of right-wing intolerance that even America’s Tea Party would find offensive.
If you believe in the Labour Party’s principles of ending zero-hour contracts and fairness for all, don’t vote for the SNP, because you will get Osborne’s budgets that will return our country back to the days of my youth.
If people in Scotland want to end austerity, it won’t happen by voting for an SNP candidate because their first allegiance is to an independent Scotland, not an austerity-free Britain.
Labour are the only political party who don’t have an ulterior motive when it comes to economic or social policy.
The SNP want an independent country and that can only come quickly if our economic situation is dire.
So in that respect, the only political party who can deliver independence to Scotland are, therefore, the Tories, because they want a Britain where ordinary folk suffer and the rich get richer.
 

Being from the north of England and having lived through hard times, I know what it is like to be marginalised by governments and big business.
I can understand why those who once supported Labour in Scotland are angered and disappointed by them, because Labour have let us down in the past.
But to turn your back on Labour and trust a party hell-bent on independence
won’t give you economic security. It will produce the opposite result.
I know that Labour on their worst day is more welcome to the average citizen than the Tories on their best 1000 days.
If we get another Tory government, it will eradicate the civilised state and put in its place a pay-as-you-go society that will resemble the days of my youth.
Britain must return to a vision similar to 1945 when the welfare state was born.
We must strike a new deal for the 21st century that is fair and compassionate.
I implore you to vote like my generation did 70 years ago. Please vote for a Labour government that wants economic fairness for all, not just the elite.
Labour can win – but not without Scottish Labour supporters showing the same courage as my generation did.
Please come back to Labour.
 ●Harry’s book, titled Harry’s Last Stand, is published by Icon Books and is available now. Follow Harry on Twitter @twitter.com/Harryslaststand 
