SCOTS caught up in the Nepal earthquake disaster have been in touch with their families to say they are safe.
Medical students, Joseph Feeney from Coatbridge and Calum Henderson from Edinburgh were on a trekking trip, but are “safe but stranded”.
The Aberdeen University students, both 21, had travelled to Nepal as a treat after passing their third year exams.
They have been left stranded in the avalanche-hit region as they trekked to the base of Ana Purna.
Joseph Feeney’s father, Dr James Feeney said that the two were currently with another group, sheltering in what’s called a teahouse.
They were being cared for by their Sherpa.
 

Dr Feeney said: “They say this teahouse is mobbed to the rafters with people coming off the mountain.
“They’ve been given hospitality by the locals and their guide.
“The guide was really worried because his family are in Kathmandu.
“Apparently his family are all well, but his house was demolished - completely flattened by the earthquake.
“The boys have been told that they’re really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn’t have got back down.
“The landslide would have blocked them off.
“But they’re fine, they’re just a bit shook up.
“They’re just wondering how they’re going to get home.
“The village where they’re staying is all single storey buildings so hopefully they’re quite safe there.
“Looking at the TV screens and seeing what could have happened to them, me and my wife, we’re just counting our blessings - Thank God.”
It was announced on Monday that the RAF would be delivering supplies to the disaster zone. 
Officials at Nepal’s mountaineering department said at least 17 people died and 61 were injured in the avalanche which hit the Everest area, with an unknown number still missing.
A woman from Glasgow, initially reported missing, has been located and has been in contact with her family.
Jacqueline Toal, aged 34, from Glasgow, was travelling in Nepal and was listed as missing on a Red Cross database set up in the aftermath of the disaster.
Her father, Philip Toal, said the family were very worried, as they hadn’t been in contact with her after news of the earthquake broke.
But after her family posted a message on Facebook to say she was missing, Ms Toal got back in touch with them via text to confirm she was ok.
Mr Toal said: “I was trying not to panic.
“But when that text came through there was just elation.
“We’d heard conflicting stories about where the epicentre was so we didn’t really know what to believe.”
Jacqueline described to him the events as the quake struck.
“She said the ground shook and then within 10 or 15 seconds it got worse and worse and then at that point she realised it was an earthquake,” Mr Toal said.
“But it seemed to be over very, very quickly and fortunately she was ok.
“The building that they were in hadn’t been damaged in any way.”

Mr Toal is concerned the remoteness of the Pokhara Lakes region where Jacqueline is staying.
He said: “We’re still very worried.
“She’s not out of the woods by any means.
“There was another earthquake this morning, and without the information she needs to travel she could be stuck there for a wee while yet.”
Mathew Thorne, 36, had texted his mum to say he was safe.
Engineer James Grieve, 52, from Kinross, has also been in touch with his partner Shirley McGhie, 40, to say he is also safe and well.
 

James said the group was becoming increasingly concerned about when they will be rescued as they have just a couple of days' worth of supplies left.
He said more than 100 people were waiting to be rescued and that a series of aftershocks had left those stranded terrified of more avalanches, which have already killed dozens of people.
James, who believes the official figure of 17 dead on the mountain is way off the mark and could be three times that number, has also told of fears that weather forecasts of heavy snow will hamper efforts to lift them off Everest.
The 12 rescue helicopters being used in the operation face being grounded in the event of predicted storms.

