A GLASGOW student is heading back to Kenya this summer for a second chance to help save lives with crucial first aid skills.
Niall McCumesty volunteered for the St Andrew’s First Aid project last year, teaching the first aid syllabus specially adapted for sub-Saharan Africa.
Partnering with First Aid Africa, Niall will join three other first-time volunteers from across Glasgow in the town of Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County, in western Kenya.
Niall, Oyiza Momoh, 19, Sarah Pringle, 19, and Tamara Stead, 21, regularly provide first aid cover at events across Scotland already and are looking forward to the challenge.
The 20-year-old student at the University of Glasgow said: &quot;I witnessed firsthand the immense difference empowerment in first aid skills made to communities across Western Kenya. Whilst there our small team trained more than 2000 Kenyans basic lifesaving skills as well as a record breaking class of a thousand Scouts in a single day.
“This summer I hope to utilise the breadth of knowledge and experience within our St Andrew's First Aid team to continue to create a new team of First Aid trainers within communities to give those in the most rural areas a fighting chance in an emergency.
“We hope to spread the skills and values the organisation has given us around the world. No-one should needlessly die because they needed first aid and didn't get it.”
 

Principal Officer from First Aid Africa, Sam Abrahams, said: “Scotland is home to some of the best first aiders in the world. We are delighted to be joined by colleagues from St Andrew’s First Aid in Kenya this year.
“Volunteers across Scotland believe that access to lifesaving education should be increased in Scotland and across the world. The partnership between First Aid Africa and St Andrew’s First Aid is another important step towards that goal.”
 The volunteers each need to raise &pound;1500 to meet the costs of the expedition and their efforts can be supported at their fundraising site . Visit www.firstaidafrica.org for more on the project. 
