A LAND deal that could see 550 new homes in Glasgow’s east end has been hailed for continuing the regeneration land left derelict for 40 years.
Clyde Gateway sold the former Dalmarnock Power Station’s 22-acre site to Link Group for &pound;5.7 million for a &pound;65m investment plan.
The riverside land has been derelict for nearly 40 years and Glasgow City Council provided the funding to Link to secure the deal. The properties will be a mix of social rented, shared equity and family homes for sale.
Dalmarnock Power Station’s chimney dominated the skyline for decades since being built in 1915 and then expanded in 1921 and 1935. It was targeted by enemy attacks during the Second World War but bombs missed it and killed civilians in the neighbouring tenements instead.
The site closed in 1977 and was demolished 1980 - but only after three attempts to bring down the chimney.
Clyde Gateway bought the site in 1980 and there was a year-long remediation programme to remove thousands of tons of concrete and steelwork, as well as Japanese Knotweed. A new sustainable drainage system was also added, explained Clyde Gateway.
 

Lord Smith of Kelvin, chairman of Clyde Gateway, said: “We have stepped in to deal with market failure and having initially purchased the site and followed it up with a spend of &pound;3m on decontamination and infrastructure improvements beneath the surface, we have now found a very able and willing development partner who will deliver the types and quality of housing that the community here requires.
“These 550 homes will complement perfectly the nearby Athletes’ Village. What we are seeing and experiencing here in this area is a truly world-class transformation with the likes of Dalmarnock railway station - which recently underwent an &pound;11m refurbishment - the community-owned Legacy Hub, the Emirates Arena and Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome, the Police Scotland building and the soon-to-be-built nursery and primary schools making an unbelievable difference and fulfilling the legacy promises made when Glasgow first bid for the Commonwealth Games.”
Link was previously involved in shared ownership developments in Bridgeton in 1980 and new social housing in Oatlands.
Housing Minister Margaret Burgess MSP said: “The Scottish Government has provided &pound;181 million to Glasgow City Council over the last three years for its affordable housing supply programme. This allowed the council to fund Link Group Limited’s acquisition of the Dalmarnock site for affordable homes.
“This development complements the significant investment already made in the Commonwealth Games Athletes’ Village, which delivered 700 new affordable homes and a care centre. I am delighted that the funding of this project will make use of surplus, public sector land that meets local housing needs.”
Link will build the site in phases with the first getting underway in 2016 and overall completion due in 2021/22.
