A TRAUMATISED mum has told how her husband battered her senseless with a rolling pin.
Lorraine Lorimer says monster Alan O’Donnell tried to pour bleach into her mouth and threatened her with a knife.
Last night, she said: “I loved him, I trusted him and he beat me within an inch of my life and left me lying on the floor for dead. Tell me – where is the justice?”
The mum of four was left with black eyes and horrifying bruising. She says drunken O’Donnell – who had a 14-year-old with him – flicked cigarette ash on her then casually walked away.
O’Donnell, 46, had faced a murder charge but was convicted of the lesser charge of assault and jailed for three years.
Lorraine blasted the justice system for the lenient sentence handed out at the High Court in Glasgow earlier this month. O’Donnell had a previous conviction for a domestic breach of the peace.
Lorraine, 45, from Yoker, Glasgow, says he was high on booze and diazepam when he attacked her.
She said: “That was the worst night of my life and it left me scared to look in a mirror or even leave the house on my own.
“I’ve begged the council to move me from this house but they won’t and every day I have to walk into my kitchen where I lay on the floor for three hours, covered in blood and bleach, begging for my life.
“After he was arrested, he was given bail and allowed to live just around the corner so every waking moment I was terrified he would come back to get me.
“I couldn’t work. I nearly lost everything and to think he has been given only three years in prison makes me sick.
 “Alan was my husband and someone I trusted who attacked me, beat me, kicked me, punched me, held me down and tried to pour bleach in my mouth then  threatened me with a knife – but he will probably be living back around the corner in 18 months. 
“After the attack, I discovered that my son was going to bed with a knife under his pillow to protect us in case Alan came back.”
 

The attack on Lorraine came after she had stayed in for a night by herself, watching soaps before going to bed early.
She recalls she left her phone downstairs to charge and claims she was unaware of the hundreds of messages and incoming calls from O’Donnell, telling her she was disrespecting him by ignoring him and – she claims – even threatening her life.
Lorraine was asleep in bed when O’Donnell, of Drumchapel, Glasgow, arrived by taxi early in the morning and claims he demanded she have a whisky with him.
She said: “Alan was helping to look after a 14-year-old so I was getting an early night but at 4.45am, I heard him outside.
&quot;When I answered the door, he was really drunk and then showed me an empty pack of diazepam pills that he said he had taken.
“It was 5am, I asked him what he thought he was doing dragging a 14-year-old out but he demanded I have a whisky with him.
“When I said I was going to bed, he refused and we ended up in the living room where he knocked me on to the couch and wouldn’t let me get up.
“He went berserk and grabbed me by the hair, pulled me into the kitchen and then ripped off my pyjama top so I was left on the floor wearing only my knickers.
“He started kicking and punching my head and, in an attempt to get away, I grabbed his leg and he fell but then suddenly he had a rolling pin out of the kitchen drawer and started hitting me on the head.
 

“I could feel the heavy wood bouncing off the bones of my skull then he picked up a grater and held it to my face, threatening to tear it down the side of my face.
“I screamed and begged him to stop but he then pinned me down with his knees on my shoulders.
“Holding a bottle of bleach, he started trying to open my mouth and it ran all over my face, neck and chest as I tried to fight him off.
“Then he grabbed a large kitchen knife and turned to the 14-year-old and asked him if he should do it and I thought I was dead.
“He then calmed down and got up, smoked a cigarette and then flicked it on to my chest before walking out like it was nothing.”
Lorraine contacted her eldest son, who called police. She says she doesn’t recognise O’Donnell as the man she once loved.
The couple, who had briefly dated as teenagers, struck up a romance again after meeting in the street three years ago.
The loved-up pair tied the knot a year later in June 2013. But Lorraine claims that within weeks of their wedding, she saw a different side to O’Donnell.
 

She said: “Alan was so kind, caring and attentive and he was desperate for us to get married.
“Within weeks of walking down the aisle, he became dark, really controlling and jealous.
“He was always trying to give me food, even if I wasn’t hungry, and I began to feel like he was trying to keep me by making me fat so other men wouldn’t find me attractive.
“I started work a month after we married but he hated me going and would refuse to babysit the kids.
“Once we were married, Alan kept his home and I kept mine and saved up every penny we had so we could get a house together.
 “But whenever he was away from me, he would text me really strange demonic things about the  Antichrist and when I confronted him he just passed it off as a joke.” 
She believes he was using diazepam and booze when he was away from her.
Lorraine said: “In the end, he was a person who kept the extent of his problems hidden very well and I paid the price for loving him.”
Sentencing him, judge Lady Rae told him: “No remorse has been shown for what happened.”
