STEVEN Gow has a new nickname. He is Mr T, the man who is so keen to bring T in the Park to his back garden he’s making wooden replicas of the logo for his friends and neighbours to hang on their gates.
Promoters DF Concerts, who ran the event at Balado near Kinross for 17 years, want to borrow this beautiful, peaceful chunk of Perthshire for a long weekend in July for the giant festival.
Opposition to the plans – which will be considered by Perth and Kinross council over the next month – has centred around traffic congestion and two ospreys nesting on the site.
But there is now, it seems, a groundswell of local opinion that thinks a music festival here would be just grand.
As the consultation ends today, there are 243 red Ts dotted around the front gardens, farms and fences surrounding the Strathallan estate.
“If the plans go ahead I would be one of the people most affected,” said Gow, who works on the neighbouring estate and lives in a tied cottage just behind Strathallan Castle. But it’s only one weekend. What is that out of a whole year? It’s quiet here for 51 weekends of the year.”
All the latest T in the Park news
He and many other locals feel they’ve been misrepresented as a community that is opposed to the festival.
Wendy Wallace, who is also painting and distributing Ts, says a few vocal NIMBYs do not represent the majority who live around Strathallan and want the festival to go ahead there.
“Some people just don’t want it in their back garden,” she said. “But they are happy to go to other huge events across the country. That’s a very selfish attitude to have.”
 

  T in the Park 2015: VisitScotland backs plans to relocate festival to Strathallan Castle 
DFC have worked hard to bring residents on side and reassure them the infrastructure and wildlife will not suffer. When Gow first heard that the music festival might be setting up over the wall from his home, he was not sure what was involved. Aged 35, with four kids, he had never been to T in the Park.
“I’d always been busy with work and kids,” he said. “I’m not old but my perception of it was a heap of young people going partying.”
Then the promoters invited him to last year’s event – and it changed his mind. He said: “You are not in a good position to judge it if you haven’t been. My eyes were opened.
“I thought it wouldn’t be my thing but then I realised you can stand back, watch the music and see it all. You don’t have to be right in the crowd. I was amazed at the amount of older people there. The first ones I saw were in their 60s.
“I changed my mind as soon as I saw it. There was nothing I looked at and thought, ‘I don’t like that’. Everybody thinks of it as 80,000 teenagers out getting drunk but I don’t think I would miss it now. I would go even if it wasn’t just over the back wall.”
For Wendy, a T in the Park veteran who lives in nearby Tullibardine, there was never any doubt.
She said: “When I heard it might be coming I was completely overexcited. I have been loads of times, my children have been – it’s a fantastic thing. Everyone should go once in their life.”
As well as showing the grassroots support for the bash, the red T campaign is, she says, getting the buzz going.
“People are having fun with them. Steven’s wife, Terri, is Mrs T and they are all the T family. Someone has lit up a T with fairy lights. We’ve seen them on side of the horse and on cars. Someone has even got a tattoo.”
Wendy, a teaching assistant who has lived in the area all her life, says locals are already feeling the benefits. She added: “Road structures are already being improved and that will be ongoing for the whole time T in the Park is at Strathallan. It’s a fantastic opportunity for businesses.”
She points to a new B&amp;B in nearby Muthill that is now fully booked, a printer in Auchterarder is producing pro-T car stickers and a screen printing company who have sold 40 shirts this week.
Farmer Ron Dalgleish is proud to display a red T his gate. Aged 84, he claims he is too old for the mosh pit in the King Tut’s Tent. If he was 50 years younger, however, there would be no stopping him.
His 48-year-old son, also Ron, works the 460-acre farm with him and is looking forward to attending his first T. “There’s a buzz in the area already,” he said. “There were 60 people at the last community council, all looking forward it.”
His father added: “I’ve lived here all my life and I’m convinced the majority of people now welcome it. It will bring some prosperity to the area.”

While there is a groundswell of support for the festival’s new site, including an online petition from the CommuniTITP group, there is also a very vocal opposition group.
Those opposed to the festival say that DFC’s traffic plans are “flawed” and the ospreys nesting on the site would not be properly protected.
A spokesperson for Strathallan T Action Group said: “Strathallan Castle Estate is the wrong site for T in the Park for many reasons, most obviously its poor infrastructure and its rich biodiversity.
“The Traffic Management Plan fails to consider traffic flow along single-track roads. No account is taken of local traffic, or of how 7500 staff will travel to and from the event. No mention is made of how emergency vehicles will access the surrounding area. DFC have failed to design the site to accommodate wildlife. Instead they have already begun a programme to prevent protected species from nesting, including otters, bats and kingfishers.
“Their Osprey Management Plan has been controversial and potentially unlawful, and has totally failed.”
The festival is due to take place on the weekend of July 10-12 with headliners Kasabian, The Libertines and Noel Gallagher’s High Flying Birds.
It was forced out of its former home near Kinross over health and safety fears about a gas pipe that runs under the site.
Perth &amp; Kinross Council said: “The public consultation concludes at 11am on Friday. The council’s planning team will review off the information that has been provided and factor this into their final recommendation to go before councillors for consideration.”
 Try today's showbiz quiz: 


