SCOTLAND’S temperatures are set to plummet this week as a ‘polar plume’ arrives to bring in a week-long chill.
Starting tomorrow, with -7C temperatures in some areas, Monday is set to be the coldest April 27 on record for some.
Snow already hit western Scotland today as Britain looks set to plunge from being hotter than 19C Egypt on Friday to colder than 14C Stockholm, in Sweden, tomorrow.
A weather map showed the ‘polar plume’ with -10C high-altitude temperatures arriving in Britain early Monday morning.
More weather news
The Met Office forecast temperatures down to -7C on Monday morning in Scotland, with -5C in northern England and 1C in the South.
Early today the mercury fell to -5C in Scotland and -4C in northern England.
April 27’s lowest temperatures since records began in the 1850s is -6.1C in 1956 at Glenlivet, Moray, Scotland, according to the book Daily Temperature Extremes for Britain, used to compile Met Office records.
Widespread frost is due Monday morning in the North and gritters are set to spread salt on roads. Monday night temperatures could drop to -5C.
Netweather said: “It’s a shock to the system with a wintry feel over the next week. Don't put away winter woollies and thermals.”
 Remember these scenes from just a few months ago? 

Snow and sleet showers are forecast on higher ground in northern England and Scotland until Tuesday.
The Met Office predicted a wet Wednesday for all, with “rather cold” conditions into the Bank Holiday weekend, which is forecast to stay cool.
The North is due snow on higher ground and gales, with “bands of rain or showers” for most parts.
Highs from 8-14C are due for most over the next week - feeling like 4-9C in a northerly windchill at times.
Met Office forecaster Greg Dewhurst said: “A northerly flow with polar origins is arriving and the next week looks cool.
“Frost will be quite widespread in northern rural parts on Monday morning.
“Wintry showers are possible in northern England and Scotland until Tuesday, with low pressure bringing rain to all on Wednesday.
“It will turn cooler again in a northerly on Thursday and the Bank Holiday weekend is likely to stay cool and unsettled, with gales in Scotland and northern England at times.
“Showers are likely to turn heavy at times, with snow on northern hills. There is a chance the South could become more settled than the North.”
It comes just days after much of the country basked in warm spring temperatures, with Thursday the warmest day of the year in some parts of the UK.
 Try today's quick quiz: 

