A SCOTS couple on the holiday of a lifetime were rescued by Gurkhas after being stranded in &shy;disaster-hit Nepal.
Brian Allan and his wife Seobhan had been sitting in a cafe in the capital Kathmandu when the earthquake hit, splitting the floor in half.
They were then given aid by Gurkha soldiers drafted in to help stranded tourists – and were last night in a rescue camp being run by the regiment.
Seobhan’s sister Sheigra McGuigan went to Twitter to say: “Great news. Seobhan and Brian made contact this morning – still in Kathmandu but have been rescued by the Gurkhas.
“They are in their camp now and got to use the satellite phone. Hoping to fly out to Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday.”
The Edinburgh couple fled tumbling buildings as the quake hit and were forced to sleep in a park before the Ghurkas came to their aid.
The pair had been trekking at the base of Mount Everest the day before Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake struck, leaving 4000 dead and thousands more missing, including many engulfed by avalanches in the Himalayas.
Brian’s mum May Smith, 68, from Dalkeith, Midlothian, said: “We got a phone call at 4.30am from Seobhan telling us they were fine.
“She said they had been moved to a Gurkha camp and they’re hoping to fly out to Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday.
“What concerned me was the day before, they were trekking at the bottom of Everest.
“When Seobhan was on the phone, they were still getting aftershocks and you could hear it in the background, like thunder.
“My other worry was what happens after the earthquake because things are falling to bits and the water supply becomes contaminated? I just want them home.”
A couple from South Queensferry were also located yesterday after going missing while on an Annapurna trek in the Himalayas.
Darren Smith, 27, and girlfriend Fiona Lamont, 26, were able to contact &shy;relatives in the early hours to let them know they were OK.
 

Fiona’s dad Norman said: “They’re safe. We got a text at 4.15 this morning. We don’t know exactly where they are and there’s not much communication yet but it’s starting to flood in.”
Three days of torment ended in tears of joy for missing backpacker Mitchell Carpenter’s family.
Yesterday afternoon, he contacted them from Manang to confirm he and travelling companion Joe McMullen were safe and well.
The 23-year-old Aberdonian’s mum Kay, 52, told the Record: “I’m just about to take the dogs for a walk once I stop myself shaking.
“I don’t think words can describe my emotions to be honest.”
Two 21-year-old Aberdeen University medical students are also safe but stranded on Everest.
Joseph Feeney, from Coatbridge, and Calum Henderson, from Edinburgh, were on a trekking trip to Nepal for passing their third-year exams.
Joseph’s father Dr James Feeney said: “They’ve been given &shy;hospitality by the locals and their guide.
“The boys have been told that they’re really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn’t have got back down.
“The landslide would have blocked them off. But they’re fine, they’re just a bit shaken up. They’re just wondering how they’re going to get home.”
 

The family of former Perth High School pupil Frazer McKinlay, 22, heard he was was saved when he chose a route away from one of the danger zones.
Frazer, from Bridge of Earn, planned to trek to Everest’s base camp before changing to the Annapurna circuit. He is believed to be waiting for help in the remote town of Manang.
His parents Tammy and Harry knew he was safe when he posted on &shy;Facebook on Sunday.
Harry said: “The only way we’ve been able to get hold of him is on social media. He said he’s safe and has enough food and warm clothes. We’re not sure what the living conditions are like.”

The mum of Dundee’s Heather Chan said her daughter was left trapped while trekking in a remote valley in the Tsum region after the earthquake.
The 34-year-old contacted mum Patricia, from Arbroath, when she reached safe ground.
Patricia said: “She was calm but a little shaken by the whole thing.”
Susan McDonald, 41, who was also reported missing in the area, checked in with her parents William and Ruth, in Stonehaven, to say she was fine.
Ruth said: “Susan was trekking much further north. She was very lucky. We’re just so relieved she is OK.”
Yesterday, the Record told how former minister Matthew Thorne’s family feared the worst until mum Marcelline received a text from an unknown number at 12.45pm on Sunday.
Matthew, 36, from Pitlochry in &shy;Perthshire, was at Everest base camp when the earthquake struck and used Facebook to &shy;reassure relatives. His message said: “I’m alive and well. I am one of the lucky ones. Slept in a small classroom last night with 11 others. I hope to see you all soon.”
 

Other Scots families also received good news.
Celtic fan Archie Rainey, 18, was caught up in the earthquake while on a gap year in Nepal. He had been listed as missing by the Red Cross.
But his family in Shawlands, Glasgow, said he was fine and now in regular contact.
Ross Smith, 22, from Castle Douglas in Kirkcudbrightshire, went missing after going to a Nepalese music festival. He got in touch on Sunday evening.
Jacqueline Toal, 34, from Glasgow, sent her family a text to let them know she was safe in Kathmandu.
Dad Philip said: “I was trying not to panic but when that text came through there was just elation.”
Malcolm Ramsay, who has been conducting missionary work with wife Cati since 2011, was in the quake’s epicentre zone less than 24 hours before disaster struck.
He said: “We are all extremely shaken by what has happened and find the continuing aftershocks both alarming and unsettling.
“The challenge is balancing our relief at being alive with our heartfelt grief at the &shy;catastrophic consequences for so many people here.”

Music promoter Lynda Davis contacted her family yesterday to say she was safe.
The 50-year-old, from Bridge of Earn, near Perth, who is better known as Mel, travelled to Nepal for a wedding.
Last night her dad, James McNab, from Scone, said: “She’s OK. We don’t know where she is, just that she’s fine.”
Ann Hardie, from Kirkcaldy, was initially registered as missing but has now phoned family to say she is fine. She was on the holiday of a lifetime in &shy;Kathmandu.
Meanwhile, five Scottish Fire and Rescue Service officers from Aberdeen were preparing to go to Nepal as part of the International Search and Rescue Service.
And Scots are being urged to support the Disasters Emergency Committee’s appeal to help those in need.
The Scottish Government donated &pound;250,000 to buy food, water purification tablets, bedding and shelters.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: “I would like to send our deepest condolences to everyone affected by the earthquake and offer them our support.”
The UK Government pledged to match the first &pound;5million of public &shy;donations to the appeal.
●Anyone worried about a family member should call the Foreign Office on 0207 008 0000.
To donate to the appeal, call 0370 60 60 900 or visit the website dec.org.uk.

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

