Six fire fighters were today sent to rescue a seagull around 80ft above a busy city centre street.
The Grampian Fire and Rescue Service sent a specialist height vehicle and a fire engine to Aberdeen’s Union Street yesterday after the bird became trapped in a net above a bank.
Emergency services were forced to close the Granite City’s main city centre street while the rescue took place.
A Scottish Fire and Rescue Service spokeswoman said: “We have been called to rescue a seagull in netting on the roof of a building on Union Street.
“The Scottish SPCA called us for assistance at around 1.02pm.
“It was rescued using the height vehicle from Central Station.
“Seagulls are a protected species so we must attend the call out.”
The bird was handed over to the SSPCA.
 

Animal rescue officer Karen Hogg said, “The bird was hanging by its wing having become tangled in some form of rope.
“As I was unable to reach the gull, I requested the attendance of the fire service and was very grateful when they agreed to assist.
“They were able to bring the bird to safety and I then assessed the extent of its injuries.
“Although it has damage to its flight feathers, there doesn’t appear to be any broken bones and I am hopeful it will make a full recovery.
“I will take the bird to a vets to be looked over and if all is well it will then be taken to our National Wildlife Rescue Centre in Clackmannanshire for further care.
“This was a rather dramatic rescue, with some of the street being closed to traffic.
“Although some people might think ‘it’s only a gull’, the Scottish SPCA rescue all types of birds and we are really pleased we were able to help in this case.
“We’d like to say a huge thank you to the fire service. They were absolutely fantastic and we are always extremely grateful for their assistance where possible in animal rescues.”
Seagulls have long been considered a nuisance by the majority of residents in the north-east.
 

Earlier this year Aberdeenshire Council published a Seagull Survivor’s Guide as the birds continue to attack and pillage food from residents.
The eight page guide contains all people would need to know about squawking scurries – including information on their love lives.
According to the guide the birds are romantics at heart and stay with their partner for life, unless they can’t have young.
However the problem for residents comes when the flying lovers become amorous.
“Courtship is noisy, and raucous calls can disturb people in nearby buildings all day.,” the guide states.
Despite their loving loyalty to their partners the birds have a well publicised thuggish side and will not think twice about attacking your children, pet or grandmother to gain a meal.
“Gulls are clever and learn from each other. They choose vulnerable targets, with children and elderly people most at risk.
“People have been injured by sharp beaks and claws and domestic pets can be attacked.”
Other problems caused by the birds – which can boast a three foot wingspan – include the mess caused by droppings, the litter strewn from bins as they scavenge and damage to property and corrosion of vehicles.
