A MOVIE fan was horrified to discover a mischief of mice crawling across hit feet at the cinema.
Robert Hamilton had been watching ‘A Little Chaos’ at the Cineworld complex in Edinburgh on Tuesday when he felt something moving by his feet 20 minutes in.
But when the Edinburgh University student turned the light on his phone, he found four mice settled under his seat with two more nearby and left screen 8 in disgust.
Robert and girlfriend Jennifer Boxall-Gray alerted management to the problem and were worryingly told it was an “ongoing problem”.
Despite the offer of free food, the couple promptly left and have vowed not to return.
Jennifer shared their horrifying experience in a social media post which has since been shared more than 2400 times.
 

She wrote: “Please help me share this mice problem to anyone who goes to Edinburgh Fountain Park Cineworld Cinemas.
“Yesterday I went to screen 8 showing at 5:20pm only 20 mins into the film my boyfriend said ‘something has just crawled over my shoe’.
“He turned the light on his phone and there were four mice he shined light under the seat and there were two more!
“We left the cinema disgusted and reported it to management who said ‘it was an ongoing problem and that the back of screen 8 is where there food delivery corridor is so that’s probably how they got in’.”
She continued: “This raised more alarm bells for me if the mice are in your cinemas what have you got in your food preparation areas?
“I told them I wanted my monthly cineworld unlimited card stopped as I didn’t want to return and instead they offered me some free processed food which I thought was terrible i don’t want free food i don’t want to sit in your cinema nor eat your food.
“They told me this was not the first time they have had this problem, I asked what they are doing to prevent it and all i was told was some brush style strips along the bottom of doors CLEARLY THAT’S NOT WORKING.
“Clearly cineworld don’t think having rodents roaming around there cinema is a big enough issue to deal with promptly!”
 

Jennifer then spent the whole of Wednesday trying to get her Cineworld Unlimited card cancelled which she has since successfully done.
Commenting on the social media post, a Cineworld employee wrote: “Firstly, we apologise for any upset caused by this issue, we took action as soon as we were made aware of the matter.
“Following our conversation with Jennifer, we have revised and introduced strict measures to ensure that we can resolve the matter ASAP.
“We want to assure you all that this particular issue was contained to one cinema screen and that all concessions counters, food preparation areas and that there has been no concerns with all other areas of the cinema.”
