EX-Celtic star John Hartson launched a new testicular cancer awareness campaign at his charity's annual golf day on Tuesday.
The former striker, who fought a life-threatening battle with the disease in 2009, kicked-off the Know Your Balls! drive with a little help from his celebrity pals.
The event, held at five-star Mar Hall Golf and Spa resort, Bishopton, near Glasgow, was attended by 25 stars of sports and showbiz who back the foundation.
They included former teammates Alan Stubbs and Chris Sutton, alongside ex-Rangers boss Walter Smith and BBC’s The Voice talent show winner Stevie McCrorie.
Testicular cancer is the most common form of the disease affecting young men between the ages of 15 and 45 and has a 96 percent chance of being cured if caught early.
John is passionate about encouraging men to self-check for any worrying symptoms and realises early diagnosis is vital after his own experience with the condition left him fighting for his life. After ignoring two lumps on his right testicle for four years, the cancer had spread to his lungs and brain by the time it was diagnosed.

The dad-of-five, who celebrated his 40th birthday on April 5, said: “I was 34 when my cancer was diagnosed and at one point I thought I’d never see my 40th birthday. I had 67 courses of chemotherapy and two brain operations which could easily have been avoided if I’d known more about the signs of testicular cancer.”
The Know Your Balls! campaign provides mini-advice cards with a three-step guide to self-checking in a bid to make sure men are aware of any changes and see a doctor as soon as possible if they’re worried.
Hibs head coach Alan Stubbs, who beat testicular cancer in 1999 only to battle a spinal tumour just 18 months later, has also given his backing to John’s mission to raise awareness.
He said: “I had no hesitation in supporting such a wonderful cause. From my own experience, I know how important it is to get the word out about looking after your health.”
Voice winner Stevie, from Kirkcaldy, Fife, who works as a fireman, said: “Men are notoriously bad at looking after their health. I think this is a fantastic idea and I’ll be encouraging my colleagues to make sure they know their balls from now on!”
The John Hartson Foundation golf day is the second to be held in Scotland. Among those attending this year were Insane Fight Club wrestler Grado, former Liverpool hardman Neil ‘Razor’ Ruddock, ex-Celtic boss Neil Lennon and former Rangers manager Ally McCoist, ex-Celts Frank McAvennie, Murdo MacLeod, Andy Walker, Bobby Petta and ex-Dundee United star Andy McLaren.
Former Ibrox stars Andy Goram, Bert Konterman, Derek Johnstone and Gordon Smith also took part.

