A YOUNG Scots couple have been located after going missing following the quake that has claimed 3000 lives.
Darren Alexander Smith, 27, and girlfriend Fiona Lamont, 26, were able to contact relatives in the early hours to let them know they were okay.
They were among 17 Scots known to have been in the quake zone.
Speaking on Monday, Fiona’s dad Norman said: “They’re safe.
“We got a text message at 4:15 this morning saying they were okay.
“We don’t know exactly where they are and there’s not much communication yet but it’s starting to flood in.”
Another Scots couple on the holiday of a lifetime were rescued by gurkhas after being stranded in disaster hit Nepal.
Brian Allan and wife Seobhan, from Dalkieth, Midlothian, had been sitting in a cafe in Kathmandu when the earthquake hit, splitting the floor in half.
They were then given aid by Ghurka soldiers drafted in to help stranded tourists - and were last night in a rescue camp being run by the famous regiment.
Three days of hell ended in tears of joy for missing backpacker Mitchell Carpenter’s frantic family.
On Monday afternoon he contacted his family from Manang to confirm he and travelling companion Joe McMullen were safe and well.
The 23-year-old Aberdonian’s mum Kay, 52, told the Record: “I’m just about to take the dogs for a walk...once I stop myself shaking.
“It’s really good news, they’re all safe. It’s taken them a bit longer than planned to get to Manang.
“We’ll maybe get some news as to how things are going soon but I don’t think words can describe my emotions to be honest.”
 

Mitchell’s girlfriend of three years, Laura Clarke told Facebook friends: “They’re ALIVE!!!!!!!!!!!!! — feeling blessed with Joe McMullen and Mitchell Carpenter.
“They’re in Manang everyone! They’re unhurt. So ecstatic!”
Two Aberdeen University medical students are also “safe but stranded” on Mount Everest, the world’s highest mountain.
Joseph Feeney, from Coatbridge, and Calum Henderson, from Edinburgh, both 21, were on a trekking trip to Nepal as a treat after passing their third year exams .
Joseph’s father, Dr James Feeney said: “They’ve been given hospitality by the locals and their guide.
“The boys have been told that they’re really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn’t have got back down.
“The landslide would have blocked them off.
“But they’re fine, they’re just a bit shook up. They’re just wondering how they’re going to get home.
“Looking at the TV screens and seeing what could have happened to them, me and my wife, we’re just counting our blessings – Thank God.”
 

The family of former Perth High School pupil Frazer McKinlay, 22, heard that he was safe after making a decision which took him away from one of the danger zones.
Frazer, from Bridge of Earn, originally planned to trek to Everest’s base camp before changing to the Annapurna circuit. He is believed to be waiting for assistance in the remote town of Manang.
His parents Tammy and Harry are waiting for more news.
Harry said: “Frazer was supposed to be going on the Everest base camp trek but changed his mind. We’re not really sure why.
“The only way we’ve been able to get hold of him is on social media.
“He said he’s safe and has enough food and warm clothes. We’re not sure what the living conditions are like.”
Frazer managed to find signal to post a message on Facebook on Sunday.
It read: “Letting everyone know I’m safe in Nepal. Stuck in a village in the Himalayas but all fine with healthy amounts of food and warm clothes.
“Will update everyone when I’m moving.”
 

The mum of a Dundee woman told how her daughter was left trapped in a remote valley after the devastating earthquake in Nepal.
Heather Chan was trekking with friends in the Tsum region when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit.
The 34-year-old contacted her mum Patricia, from Arbroath when she reached safe ground to let her know she was fine.
Mrs Chan said last night: “She was calm, but a little shaken by the whole thing.”
Heather had travelled to Kathmandu from Hanoi, in Vietnam, before heading to the Tsum Valley.
A second Tayside woman Susan McDonald, 41, was also reported missing in the area.
However she checked in with her parents, William and Ruth, in Stonehaven, to say she was fine.

Mrs McDonald said: “Susan was trekking much further north and wasn’t really affected by the quake. She was very lucky. We have been inundated with phonecalls from lots of people asking after her and we’re just so relieved she is ok.”
A former minister from Pitlochry has told of his lucky escape from the huge quake.
Malcolm Ramsay, who has been conducting missionary work in the country with wife Cati(CORR) since 2011, travelled through the quake’s epicentre less than 24 hours before the quake struck.
He said: “We are all extremely shaken by what has happened and find the continuing aftershocks both alarming and unsettling. The challenge is balancing our relief at being alive with our heartfelt grief at the catastrophic consequences for so many people here.”
Scot Matthew Thorne, 36, was on Everest basecamp when the earthquake struck and used Facebook yesterday to reassure relatives he was safe.
His message read: “Hi all, limited reception here but I alive and well. I am of the lucky ones. Slept in a small classroom last night with 11 others. I hope to see you all soon. Best wishes.”
Matthew also sent a text to mum Marcelline, 62, in a bid to calm her fears.
 

He wrote: “Hi Mum. We are sleeping in a school classroom. 11 of us! I hope to be back in Kathmandu not tomorrow but the day after and shall just take it from there. Lots of love to everyone xxx”
The Record told how Matthew’s family feared the worst until Marcelline received a text from an unknown number at 12.45pm on Sunday.
Matthew was fulfilling a lifelong dream by climbing Everest before he returned home to Scotland after more than a decade living in France and New Zealand.
Other Scots families also received good news.
Archie Rainey, 18, was caught up in the earthquake while on a gap year in Nepal.
The Celtic fan, who left Scotland last August, was initially listed as missing on a Red Cross database.
But a spokesman for his family in Shawlands, Glasgow said: “He is absolutely fine and is in regular contact.”
Ross Smith, 22, from Castle Douglas, Dumfries and Galloway was originally missing.
It is thought Ross had gone to Nepal for the Universal Religion music and dance festival which was due to run from Sunday to Wednesday
But thankfully by Sunday evening Ross had been in touch.
In a facebook posting at 7.45pm the family said: “Can confirm he is safe and well.”
He lives near Castle Douglas with his parents Graeme and Isabel and three brothers.

Jacqueline Toal, 34, from Glasgow, sent her family a text to let them know she was safe in Kathmandu.
Dad Philip said: “I was trying not to panic.
“But when that text came through there was just elation.”
The fate of a missing Perthshire woman, Lynda Davis, from Bridge of Earn, was unclear last night.
On the Nepal missing database, she is described as 50, from Dundee with a nickname of Mel Davis. Her parents are named as James McNab and Ann Williams and it says the date of her last contact was 22 April.
There was no answer at Ms Davis’ home in Bridge of Earn last night.
A Fife mum was still registered as missing after failing to make contact with the authorities.
Ann Hardie, from Kirkcaldy, was on the holiday of a lifetime in Kathmandu when disaster struck.
Neither of her two sons could be reached on Monday.
Meanwhile, five Scottish Fire and Rescue Service officers from Aberdeen are Nepal-bound to help as part of the International Search and Rescue Service.

 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

