TENNIS ace Andy Murray has served up a business boost for a Scots bridal store following his wedding two weeks ago.
Lesley Campbell, who owns the Point Nouveau store in Dunblane, said brides are desperate to tie the knot in the town, just like Andy and his wife Kim.
She said: “It’s our best year ever. We’re three times busier than we were last year.
“Our diary is fully booked for June, July and August.
“Andy could have got married anywhere, but he didn’t, he came home and I’m very grateful.”

Lesley, 52, predicts the Murray factor will turn Dunblane into one of Scotland’s top wedding venues.
She said: “Interest in the town as a destination and as a place where brides buy their dresses has soared since Andy and Kim’s wedding, it’s huge.
“We would normally be quite busy anyway but for our diary to be chock-a-block so far in advance is unusual.
“We have our first bride getting married in New York – and that came from her being here for Andy’s wedding weekend.”

Lesley received a personal thank you note from Kim after she sent a specially made crystal-encrusted garter for her to wear on her big day at Dunblane Cathedral.
She’s now been inundated with requests for similar items.
She added: “We’ve had letters from people asking for a similar garter. Others come in to photograph the shop and the dresses.
“We’ve become a bit of a tourist attraction. We’ve had people in from England and from as far away as South Africa.
“I hope Andy and Kim come back every year to celebrate their anniversary here.

“We’ve even joked we should start doing children’s wear too in case they start a family soon.”
Kim’s Jenny Packham wedding dress divided opinion among fashion critics but Lesley, whose dresses cost up to &pound;4000, was a fan.
She said: “The detail on it was beautiful but it’s too early to say whether or not it will influence what brides go for in future.
“People say Andy never smiles but he grinned from ear to ear the whole day, despite the cold and rain.
“He never took his eyes off Kim the whole day, he was beaming.
“What they’ve done for the town is great.”
 

