AN ARMY recruitment sergeant who served with the Special Forces in Iraq denied sexually attacking 11 female cadets saying it &quot;never happened&quot; and told a court the Army was his &quot;life&quot;.
Edwin Mee, 46, is said to have abused his position of trust and power to abuse or rape 11 alleged victims while working at an Army careers centre in Croydon, south east London.
Known as Jock, the Scottish officer allegedly carried out the attacks on women aged from 15 to their early twenties between October 2010 and September 2011.
Taking to the witness box to give evidence at London's Southwark Crown Court, Mee told jurors about his military career, and firmly denied the allegations.
He sat straight in the witness box and spoke in a Glaswegian accent, often saying &quot;yes, ma'am&quot;, and responding &quot;Aye, sir&quot;, when questioned by Judge Alistair McCreath.
Lisa Wilding QC, defending, asked her client: &quot;The allegations against you are that in respect of two complainants, that you raped them, and in respect of the others that you touched them sexually, what do you say generally about those allegations?&quot;
Mee replied: &quot;That never happened ma'am.&quot;
He explained that his father had been an engineer in the Royal Navy, his mum an Army nurse, and that his step-brothers had also been in the Army.
Mee joined the army aged 24, and went on to serve tours of duty in Iraq - where he was attached to the Special Forces, Afghanistan - where he was attached to a parachute regiment, and Bosnia, jurors heard.
By the time the allegations against him came to light he had acquired the rank of sergeant, and he was suspended in 2011.
The court was told that Mee was medically discharged from the Army in April 2014.
Lisa Wilding QC, defending Mee, asked him how he felt about his time in the Army.
He replied: &quot;Everyone knows how I feel about the Army. My family served in it - the Army was my life, and if it wasn't for all this mess, I would still be there.&quot;
When arrested, Mee gave a prepared statement to police denying the allegations against him.
Referring to one of the rape allegations, he said: &quot;I have never raped any person in my life.&quot;
He went on to deny each of the sexual assault allegations saying &quot;I did not sexually assault any person&quot;, when talking about each individual incident.
However, giving evidence, Mee conceded that he would often swear in the recruitment office and shouted at recruits saying things like &quot;I'll rip your head off and s*** down your throat&quot;, despite it not strictly being allowed.
When asked why he was like this, he replied: &quot;If I felt they were trying to mess me about, if somebody missed an appointment. These are courses that are paid for by the British army.
&quot;If someone missed an appointment I would get them on the phone and bollock them.
&quot;At the time I just thought it was normal. It was just the way I spoke.&quot;
He further admitted that he would often make comments to &quot;threaten or intimidate&quot; recruits because the Army is not a nine to five job, and they needed to understand that they could lose their lives.
But Mee also told jurors that he was &quot;protective&quot; over his candidates and felt that he was in the best position to help them, occasionally &quot;cutting corners&quot; to help them progress.
He had a total of 565 candidates on his books while working at the recruitment centre.
The court has heard that Mee targeted alleged victims by staying late at the careers centre to conduct interviews - in which he &quot;gauged their vulnerability&quot; - with applicants out of hours.
One of the women claims she was a virgin in her early 20s, when she fell pregnant after Mee raped her in a locked waiting room.
Another complainant, aged 16 at the time, alleges that Mee asked to see the piercing in her stomach area the first time they met to discuss her application.
She claimed that later he slapped her bottom and, when she complained, told her: &quot;It's you who needs the Army.&quot;
At the time of the alleged sex attacks he was employed as a recruiting sergeant with the British Army at the Mitcham Barracks Army Careers and Information Office (ACIO) in Croydon.
Mee, of Tavistock Road, Croydon, south London - who was dressed in a dark suit with light blue shirt and dark blue tie and with his grey hair tied back in a ponytail - denies 17 counts of sexual assault, three rapes and one count of assault by penetration.

