A “CRUEL and merciless” murderer who stabbed his pal 27 times for no reason has been jailed for at least 20 years – and branded an animal by his victim’s mum.
James Caven knifed Colin Armstrong 14 times in the neck, eight times in the chest, four times in the back and once on the arm.
Colin’s only crime was to befriend the thug.
His mum Anne, 74, said last night: “Caven must have been in a frenzy to stab Colin 27 times.
“He must have known Colin was already gone and kept stabbing him. He’s an animal.”
Kind-hearted Colin became friends with Caven after the killer got out of jail. Anne said: “He felt sorry for him.
“I’d tell Colin to keep away but he would say, ‘He’s not that bad’. He always saw the best in everyone.”
Caven, 39, murdered Colin, 49, on October 7 last year in Macmerry, East Lothian – after subjecting him to what police called “incidents of escalating violence” in the weeks before the attack.
He also asked a neighbour for a knife to stab Colin because he “won’t get out of my house”.
 
Retired nurse Anne, who has diabetes and mobility problems, said: “Caven had battered Colin at least three times.
 

“My neighbour found Colin with blood running down his face and he said, ‘Don’t tell my mum. She’s just out the hospital.’ He didn’t want to worry me.”
Colin was devoted to his sister Lorraine, 53, brother Craig, 42, and his nephews and nieces. He lost his twin, Stephen, to cancer in 2009.
“He wouldn’t hurt a fly,” Anne said. “He always wanted to help people.”
Police found an array of forensic evidence against Caven but he lied to try to save his skin. He blamed two innocent men and made Colin’s family endure a trial.
It ended in a unanimous guilty verdict. Anne said: “When my husband phoned to tell me, I burst into tears.
“It’s been a living hell these past seven months.”
At the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday, Lord Uist jailed Caven for life with a 20-year minimum term.
He told the killer he had committed a “horrific and gruesome” murder and made his friend suffer “a terrible end”.
The judge added: “Colin Armstrong was subjected to a cruel and merciless attack. Only you know what caused you to do this.
“In response to the overwhelming evidence, you lied and lied and lied again. You have shown no remorse.”
