REFUGEES at Dungavel are being paid just &pound;1 an hour to do back-breaking work at the detention centre.
Bosses of the American firm who run the unit were yesterday accused of using “slave labour”.
Desperate refugees volunteer to do the jobs so they can scrape together cash to buy items such as phone cards for calling lawyers and family back home.
Jasmine Sallis, of the Glasgow-based Unity Centre, who offer support to asylum seekers, said: “This is a form of slavery.
“Often detainees do not work straight away. But after being detained for a prolonged period, employment at &pound;1 an hour is often taken up.
 “The main reasons detainees have expressed to us is to purchase phone top-ups in order to  communicate with lawyers, friends and support systems.” 
Jobs carried out by detainees include cleaning the centre, cooking for fellow asylum-seekers and doing laundry.
Working at the centre is not compulsory. But asylum-seekers can be in the centre for more than a year while their cases are assessed and it’s the only chance they have to earn cash.
Figures show that between October 2012 and October 2013, detainees at the Lanarkshire unit worked 52,858 hours and were paid a total of &pound;52,858 by private firm GEO, who run the centre.
Phil Miller, of research group Corporate Watch, said GEO would have had to shell out around &pound;280,000 over that period had they been paying the minimum wage of &pound;6.50 an hour for over- 21s.
Miller added: “The detainees might have been arrested for working outside. Once they are in the detention centre, they can only work for &pound;1 an hour.
“That is something which detainees find very hypocritical.”
SNP MSP Sandra White said: “The practices at Dungavel have long been a source of shame and this will only add to the concerns about what is happening there.”
A spokesman for GEO said detainees were free to work up to 30 hours a week – or not at all.
He added: “They have their accommodation and all meals provided.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

