A MURDERER who plunged a carving knife into his girlfriend’s neck could soon be back on the streets.
Jason Alder murdered single mum Stacey Trainor, 24, just yards from a police station in 2004.
He was jailed for life and ordered to serve at least 12 years.
Now, Stacey’s mum Ann Trainor claims prison bosses have written telling her Alder is being “integrated back into society” before his release.
She said: “He took away my wean. He’s a monster. He doesn’t deserve to ever get out.”
Stacey’s daughter, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was just three when her mum was killed by the heroin addict in Dumfries.
Ann, 57, has raised her granddaughter and is terrified that the girl may soon come face to face with Alder, 42.
Ann said: “I don’t want her having to see that man in the street.
“I hope the prison service and parole board think she’s old enough to have her say before he’s let out.
 

“She never knew her mum and has no memories of her. Thankfully, she was with me the day her mum died.
“She deserves the chance to say what she thinks – she was the one left without a mother.”
Ann believes Stacey might still be here if the legal system had been tougher. She said: “The week before he murdered Stacey, Alder was released on bail three times, once for smashing in her windows.
“He had 57 previous convictions, some of them for possession of weapons and he’s battered previous girlfriends. He’s never said sorry or shown any remorse. I will never forgive him.”
Ann told our sister paper the Dumfries and Galloway Standard: “He’s a menace to society and if they let him out, they’re asking for trouble.
“Dumfries is all he knows so he’ll come back here without a doubt.
“He’ll be able to go anywhere he wants. My Stacey can’t.”
In serious criminal cases victims have a right to receive information about the release of an offender.
They may also have a right to be told when the offender is being considered for freedom and to make written representations before a final decision is made.

