 LITTLE Lauren Cosgrove hasn’t been sitting on her laurels since being named one of the Record’s Our Heroes winners . 
Instead the plucky nine-year-old has gone out, lived life to the full and raised &pound;16,000 to help other kids who are battling the illness she has.
Lauren Cosgrove has short gut syndrome, which means she can’t absorb nutrients through food.
She has to carry heavy medical equipment – weighing about 20 per cent of her body weight – in a backpack at all times to help her get the nutrients she needs.
Despite crippling pain, long spells in hospital and emergency surgery as recently as December, she is still smiling.
 With help from mum Laura Paterson, she set up Lauren’s Life Lines for other kids who have short gut syndrome. 
All cash raised is being used to help families buy backpacks, equipment, special swimsuits for their kids and carry out adaptations at home. So far, 16 families have been assisted.
 

 Laura, 36, told our sister paper the Paisley Daily Express : “I can hardly describe how proud I feel.” 
Lauren, who goes to St John’s Primary School in Barrhead, near Glasgow, has a line going straight into her heart to deliver vital nutrients, as well as a tube into her stomach. Mum-of-four Laura said: “She has had a tough time with her health since the New Year and has been in a lot of pain at times but she asks about other children and thinks about them.
“She spent New Year in hospital after having emergency surgery on a line into her heart that had stopped working.
“Lauren was in an isolation cubicle but we sat together and watched the fireworks through the window.”
Lauren was born at just 27 weeks and developed blood clots in her leg and a kidney. At one stage, specialists told Laura and dad Cameron they were considering amputating her leg to save her life.
As Lauren’s condition worsened, medics’ only options were to give her medication that risked causing a brain haemorrhage and severe disability or to let her go.
 

Treatment shrunk both clots but destroyed her kidney, along with part of her heel and toes. While in intensive care, Lauren developed MRSA and necrotising enterocolitis – a condition that destroys the bowel. She had a six-hour op at Yorkhill children’s hospital but was given a 30 per cent chance of survival.
Weighing only 2lbs, she was put into an induced coma. But after two weeks, she opened her eyes and has since gone from strength to strength.
 The fundraising – Lauren’s idea – began with a tabletop sale but caught the  imagination of the Barrhead community, as well as footballers at clubs like Celtic and St Mirren. Staff at Barrhead Community Fire Station have helped. 
Lauren was named East Renfrewshire’s Citizen of the Year in 2014.
Laura said: “We never expected this amount of money. We thought we might raise a few thousand pounds. It has been a fantastic year and everyone has been so kind and generous.”

 
