A SECOND vigil will be held today to remember student Karen Buckley.
A major police search was launched when the 24-year-old vanished after a night out in Glasgow last weekend. Her body was found at High Craigton Farm on the north-western outskirts of the city following a four-day search.
Alexander Pacteau has appeared in court charged with Miss Buckley’s murder.
The 21-year-old is also accused of attempting to defeat the ends of justice. He made no plea during a private hearing at Glasgow Sheriff Court and was remanded in custody.
The case has touched many people in both Scotland and Ireland, with services held in Miss Buckley’s home town of Cork throughout last week and a vigil in Glasgow’s George Square yesterday attracted around 300 people.
A second memorial event has been organised tonight in the Garnethill area of Glasgow where Ms Buckley was living.
It has been described as a “silent vigil for our neighbour Karen Buckley”.
Family, friends and colleagues of the 24-year-old joined hundreds of mourners in George Square yesterday.
Flowers, candles, cards and messages were laid out in the square and as a piper played.
A minute of silence was held and Ms Buckley’s family later arrived to look at the tributes left.
Marian Buckley hugged husband John as they read messages of sorrow and support for the family.
Glasgow Caledonian University (GCU) - where Miss Buckley was studying occupational health - was well represented, with many young people in attendance wearing GCU tracksuits and jumpers.
Barry Ahearn, who is originally from Cork but now lives in Scotland, travelled from his home in Ayr to pay his respects to Miss Buckley in George Square.
As organisers appealed for anyone who wanted to address the large crowd, Mr Ahearn sang a local Cork song.
He said: “I’ve been living in Scotland for the last four years and wanted to come today to show solidarity and support for Karen’s family.
“I sang On The Banks On My Own Lovely Lee - it’s the river that runs through Cork and is the local anthem.
“The whole situation is so sad, particularly when you’re living in Scotland and something like this happens to someone from your own country. It just doesn’t fit, it’s so sad.”
Flowers and messages have also been left at the GCU campus and at the entrance to High Craigton Farm, to the north of Glasgow, where the student’s body was found.
The outpouring of support for the family has also raised &pound;50,000 in an online drive organised by her former classmates at Limerick University.
The Go Fund Me page was set up to cover the family’s travel and expenses while in Scotland and to support the upkeep of their farm in Cork. It raised more than 10 times the original target amount.
