	<1ppqkm$93n@usenet.ins.cwru.edu>
 nntp-posting-host: po3.andrew.cmu.edu
 in-reply-to: <1ppqkm$93n@usenet.ins.cwru.edu>
 
 >>
 >>the reason i ask is because i went to a classic car meet here in the uk,
 >>and saw a very nice old de soto, 1920's vintage i'd guess, with wooden
 >>artillery type wheels, etc, but it was right-hand drive. i can't believe
 >>that desoto produced rhd cars just for the uk....
 
 well sweden and australia, and lord knows wherever else used to drive on
 the "wrong" side of the road, so the export market might have been
 larger then than just the uk.
 
 >i'm guessing, but i believe in the twenties we probably drove mostly down
 >cattle trails and in wagon ruts.  i am fairly sure that placement of the 
 >steering wheel was pretty much arbitrary to the company at that time.....
 
 by the 1920s, there was a very active "good roads" movement, which had
 its origins actually in the 1890s during the bicycle craze, picked up
 steam in the teens (witness the linclon highway association, 1912 or so,
 and the us highway support act (real name: something different) in 1916
 that first pledged federal aid to states and counties to build decent
 roads. also, the experience of widespread use of trucks for domestic
 transport during ww 1 convinced the government that good raods were
 crucial to our national defense.  anyway, by the 20s there were plenty
 of good roads, at least around urban areas, and they were rapidly
 expanding into the countryside.  this was the era, after all, of the
 first auto touring fad, the motel, the auto camp ground, etc. two good
 books on the subject spring to mind - warren belasco "america on the
 road" (title may not be exact - author is) and another called "the devil
 wagon in god's country" author i forget.  also, any of john flink's  or
 john bell rae's auto histories.
 
 as to placement of the steering wheel being arbitrary, by the early
 teens there were virtually no american cars that did not have the wheel
 on the left.  in the early days, cars had the wheel on the left, on the
 right, and even in the middle, as well as sometimes having a tiller
 instead of a wheel.  this was standardized fairly early on, though i
 don't know why.
 
 
 dan
 dh3q@andrew.cmu.edu
 carnegie mellon university
 applied history
 
 "world history strides on from catastrophe to catastrophe, whether we
 can comprehend and prove it or not."
                oswald spengler
 
 
 
 
 