
 archive-name: rec-autos/part5
 
 [this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly
 asked automotive questions; the other article contains questions
 more geared to the automotive enthusiast, and so is not crossposted
 to misc.consumers.  -- rpw]
 
    [changes as of 14 april 1993: revised brake fluid section, as
     non-silicone dot-5 fluids are now apparently available -- rpw]
 
                  commonly asked automotive questions
 
 
 tire questions:
 
 q:  what do the funny numbers on the sides of my tires mean?
 
 a:  typically, you will see something like 195/60hr14.  the 195 is the
     overall width of the tire in millimeters, the tread is usually
     narrower.  the 60 is the `aspect ratio'; it indicates the height of the
     sidewall of the tire relative to the overall width.  our example tire
     has a sidewall height of 0.60 * 195 ~= 117 mm.  the 14 is the wheel
     diameter in inches; there are also some special tires called `trx'
     tires which have three digit metric wheel diameter designations, like
     390, which is in millimeters.  the r means radial, and the h is a speed
     rating indicating the highest speed at which the tire, when properly
     inflated and carrying an appropriate load, may safely operate.  common
     speed ratings are s (112mph), t (118mph), h (130mph), and v (up to
     150mph.)
 
     recent changes to the method for specifying tire sizes move the speed
     rating to a different part of the designation; you may therefore find
     designations like 195/60r14 85h; the 85 indicates the per-tire load
     associated with the speed rating -- exceeding this load in continuous
     operation at the rated speed is dangerous practice.  what follows is
     a table showing a number of `load indices' and corresponding maximum
     per-tire loads:
 
     load index       50   51   88   89   112   113   145   149   157
     max load (kg)   190  195  560  580  1120  1150  2900  3250  4125
 
     note that the usual mass vs. weight confusion occurs in this table.
 
     in some cases, the letters p or lt may be found in front of a tire
     size; the lt designation indicates light truck, and the p designation
     indicates passenger car.  if no letter is given, then the application
     of the tire is passenger car usage.  as far as i know, these letters
     only appear in the us market.  the lt designation is prinicipally of
     interest to owners of light trucks and other utility vehicles.  for
     the owner of a passenger vehicle, there is no meaningful difference
     between a tire with a p designation and one with no designation at
     all.
 
     if the aspect ratio is omitted, it is probably 80, but may be 78.
 
     tires with an ms (mud/snow) designation may have their speed rating
     reduced by 20 km/h (about 12mph.)
 
     there is an additional set of ratings on tires for temperature,
     traction, and treadwear.  temperature and traction are graded
     a, b, and c (with a the best and c the worst); treadwear is
     a numeric rating.  these values are of limited value, as they
     are assigned somewhat arbitrarily by tire manufacturers and are
     thus not useful in comparing different brands of tires.
 
 q:  my car has tires with a funny size designation:  185/65hr390; can i put
     normal tires on the car?
 
 a:  your tires are called trx tires; they were devised by michelin.
     because of a somewhat different bead design, they are incompatible
     with normal tires; michelin used a different diameter wheel for them
     so that they could not be mounted on the wrong type wheel (and so that
     more conventional tires could not be mounted on trx type wheels.)
     you will need to aquire different wheels to put a normal tire on your
     car; it is barely possible to fit normal tires on trx wheels, and horribly
     dangerous to do so (the tires may simply peel off the rims in a corner,
     or possibly blow out at high speed.)  trx type tires are becoming hard
     to find; in addition to michelin, avon makes suitable tires.  goodyear
     has apparently discontinued their line of trx tires.
 
 q:  can i rotate radials from side to side, or rotate them only on one side
     of my car?
 
 a:  car and tire manufacturers have differing views on this subject; many
     say that swapping radials between the left and right hand sides of a
     car is now ok (this group includes michelin and goodyear); others
     (for example, pirelli and nokia) will void warranties if such swapping
     is done.  the best advice is to read your tire manual carefully before
     rotating your tires, and stick to the manufacturer's recommendations.
 
 q:  how many snow tires should i buy, and if i buy 2, which end of the
     car should i put them on?
 
 a:  in short, 4, and both ends.  to explain, many drivers in areas that don't
     get excessive snow or who don't drive agressively (or at all) in snow
     conditions get away with only two snows on the drive wheels, but there
     are circumstances where this can be dangerous practice.  with a rear
     wheel drive car, you can choose between being able to start the car
     going (a function of the rear axle) or stopping and turning the car
     (a function of the front axle.)  in a front wheel drive car, you start,
     stop, and turn with the front end.  the primary risk of putting the
     snow tires on the front only is that if you have to put on the brakes
     while going downhill, you run a serious risk of going downhill backwards.
 
 radar detectors and speed limits:
 
 q:  why aren't there any comments on radar detectors and speed limits
     in this q&a posting?
 
 a:  because questions about detectors and speed limits crossposted between
     misc.consumers and rec.autos.* always start long, tedious, and pointless
     flame wars.  if you want to talk about either of these topics, please
     subscribe to rec.autos or alt.flame and keep it there.
 
 safety equipment:
 
 q:  do airbags really work?
 
 a:  preliminary statistics suggest the following:  airbags work much
     better than no belts; good 3 point belts alone work much better than
     airbags alone, and airbags + 3 point belts work slightly better than
     3 point belts alone.  the con to airbags is that some designs tend
     to burn the driver's hands when venting the byproducts of the
     explosion that occurs inside the bag, and that some designs (but
     not all) may knock the driver's hands from the wheel, making retention
     of control of the vehicle after the bag deflates more difficult.
 
 brake questions:
 
 q:  do i always need to get the rotors on my disk brakes turned?  midas
     always wants to do this.
 
 a:  no.  there are specific conditions that mandate turning or replacing
     rotors; some shops try and make a little extra money by replacing rotors
     more often than is strictly necessary.  if the rotors are not warped
     warped, and only lightly grooved, then there is no need to replace or
     to turn them.  note also that some rotors (the rotors on many hondas
     are a good example) are so narrow to begin with that it is not practical
     to turn them; they must be replaced when they become too thin, warped,
     or badly grooved.
 
 q:  they tell me i should downshift when braking to slow my car down.  is
     this really a good idea?
 
 a:  it used to be a very good idea, back in the days of mediocre, fade
     prone drum brakes.  in modern disc brake equipped cars, use of
     downshifting to slow the car is not really necessary, except in cases
     of long, steep downhill runs.  otherwise, modern disc brakes are more
     than adequate to stop a passenger car in all circumstances, and they
     are much cheaper to repair than clutch linings.
 
     on the other hand, many standard driver's license tests in the usa
     still specify that the driver being tested downshift under braking; i
     suggest that before taking a us driver's test, you either 1) learn to
     do this smoothly (which takes some time and practice) or 2) borrow a
     car with an automatic to take the test.
 
 q:  how often should i replace my brake fluid?
 
 a:  probably more often than you do.  traditional brake fluids tend to
     absorb water; this water can corrode internal parts of the brake
     system and also lower the boiling point of the fluid.  dot-3 type
     are older fluids; dot-4 and dot-5 are newer specifications.  the
     principal differences are in wet and dry boiling points; the dry
     boiling point is important in fresh brake fluid, but the wet boiling
     point is important in older brake fluid.  dot-3 fluids have the lowest
     wet and dry boiling point _requirements_; dot-4 fluids have better
     boiling point requirements; and dot-5 fluids have the best boiling
     point requirements (but dot-5 fluids are not clearly superior; see
     the next q&a for more details.)  while the requirements imply that
     dot-4 fluids are better than dot-3 fluids, there may be specific
     cases where a dot-3 fluid is preferable, but these are mostly
     competition applications.  otherwise, dot-4 type fluids offer _much_
     improved brake pedal feel.  replacement once a year is recommended for
     dot-4 fluids, although agressive drivers may profit by changing out
     fluid more frequently, or at least bleeding a modest amount of fluid
     out of the brake calipers fairly regularly.
 
 q:  what about dot-5 brake fluids?
 
 a:  this breaks down in to two parts.  the dot-5 specification looks
     excellent for performance, but the first dot-5 fluids were silicone
     based.  silicone fluids are a tricky proposition.  unlike dot-3 and
     dot-4 fluids, they do not absorb water at all.  while this may sound
     like a feature, the problem is that any water present pools up in
     such systems, interfering with braking performance and corroding any
     metals at the spot where the pooling is occuring.  the water will tend
     to migrate downwards in the braking system to the brake calipers, where
     most of the corrosion occurs.
 
     because of this phenomenon, it is essential when converting to
     silicone to empty the entire brake system and flush it throughly
     beforehand; some even recommend replacing all rubber parts in the
     brake system when converting to silicone fluids.
 
     two other issues that come up with silicone fluids:  1) they are
     difficult to pour cleanly (that is, without air bubbles), which
     interferes with getting a good brake pedal feel, and 2) while they
     generally have much higher boiling points than dot-4 fluids, they
     do have high temperature failure modes which are indistinguishable
     in effect from boiling dot-4 fluids.  silicone fluids may make sense
     in some street car applications, but they are certainly not
     recommended for high performance driving applications, and the
     economics are questionable for street use.
 
     i have recently become aware of new fluids that meet the dot-5 standard
     that do not contain silicones; these fluids appear to be reasonably
     compatible with the older dot-3 and dot-4 fluids, but i have little
     information at this time.
 
 q:  abs is available on some of the cars i'm looking at, but it costs
     more.  is it worth it?
 
 a:  this does not have a cut and dried answer; therefore, this answer will
     be quite long in order to cover the pros and cons.  the short answer
     is that abs costs more, both initially, and to maintain, will generally
     work better for the `average driver' (that is to say, a driver who does
     not have extensive experience in high performance driving techniques),
     and may require the `unlearning' of some obsolete braking techniques
     like pump braking which should be unlearned in any case.
 
     now for the long answer.  abs works by monitering the wheels of the
     car, looking for signs of locked brakes.  it may or may not be able
     be able to distinguish between the different wheels (there are several
     systems on the market.)  it cannot detect impending lockup (which is
     what you would really want in an ideal world), but only the existence
     of lockup.  the sensors used vary; some of the less well designed
     sensors are sensitive to tire size, and to brake pad material, and
     may cease to function properly if the owner deviates from original
     equipment or oe-equivalent components.
 
     when the sensors detect lockup, the abs system responds by unlocking
     the brakes (either individually, or all at once, depending on the
     system.)  if the driver keeps their foot firmly planted, the abs
     will end up cycling between the locked and unlocked states (if a
     sensor existed that could detect _impending lockup_, then we could
     sit right at that point, which is where maximum braking effect is
     achieved.)  this pulsing can often be felt in the brake pedal, as
     the system cycles.  the percentage of the time that the brakes are
     truly engaged is called the `duty cycle'; typically in an abs system
     this is about 40%  on dry pavement, a trained driver can beat this
     duty cycle quite reliably using a technique called threshold braking;
     on wet pavement, braking is so chancy that abs will outperform
     threshold braking nearly every time.  unfortunately, on mud and on
     snow, often maximum braking effect can be acheived with the brakes
     locked; only audi, of the manufacturers producing abs-equipped cars,
     has seen fit to provide a disable switch for the abs system for this
     eventuality.
 
     a particularly important feature of abs is that it preserves
     steering control.  this is the case simply because, if you are
     braking near the limit and turn the wheel, the abs will release
     the brakes if it sees steering-triggered lockup, and back off
     on the percentage of the time that the brakes are applied.
     braking distances will lengthen accordingly.
 
     an important caution:  abs cannot exceed the maximum theoretical
     braking force in any given situation; if you start sliding on
     glare ice, don't expect an abs system to help you out very much.
     the coefficient of friction is not changed by the presence of an
     abs system in your car.
 
     as far as maintenence goes, in addition to the potential
     restrictions i've listed above, you have to worry about the
     following:  1) parts costs are much higher; the oe master cylinder
     for my obscure european sedan lists for $185, but the oe master
     cylinder for the abs-equipped version of the same car lists for
     over $1000.  most manufacturers explicitly forbid use of dot-5
     (silicone) brake fluids in abs-equipped vehicles.  because of
     the potential cost of replacement of corroded brake system
     components, regular (i suggest annual) replacement of brake fluid
     becomes very important.
 
 q:  what about this threshold braking business?
 
 a:  [normally, i'd not put this in the consumers q&a, but recent
     publicity about a number of accidents involving police drivers
     in abs-equipped chevy caprices suggests that this section is
     needed here -- rpw]
 
     threshold braking is a technique practiced by all serious high
     performance drivers; if made a habit, it replaces the `stab
     the pedal and lock 'em up' panic habit entirely, and is much
     to be prefered.  basically, the premise is that tires generate
     maximum braking force when they have just started to slide, but
     just before the wheels lock up entirely.  drivers who threshold
     brake learn to feel what this `threshold' feels like, and learn
     to search for it and hit it on the application of the brake
     pedal.  in many cars, you can feel that you are near the
     threshold when the pedal starts to firm up as you depress it.
     in any case, if you can't hear the tires whine just a bit, you're
     not very near the threshold.
 
     in a car with abs, often there is a twinge in the pedal just
     before the system starts cycling; if the driver backs off on
     the pedal just a tad when the twinge is felt, then they are very
     close to the threshold and they'll probably achieve better
     stopping distances than if they just punched it and let the abs
     take over.
 
     recently, there has been a rash of publicity over a number of
     accidents, and one death, involving police cars equipped with
     abs systems.  the police departments in question quickly blamed
     the new abs systems, but according to autoweek magazine, it now
     seems clear that the problem was a lack of training; none of the
     involved officers had any recent performance driving training.
     there is reason to believe that the drivers reacted to the pulsing
     brake pedal by `pump braking', an old and discredited technique
     of stabbing and releasing the brake pedal, the goal being to
     try and get brakes back with a failing hydraulic system.  if you
     think about it for a minute, you'll realize that pump braking must
     cut the effective operation of a working brake system by at least
     1/2, so if you cut the 40% duty cycle of an abs system by that
     much, you are giving up most of your brakes for the wrong reason.
     threshold braking has the advantage in that it is an effective
     and useful technique regardless of whether your car has abs; if
     you do fear a failed hydraulic system, then one or two stabs at
     the pedal will be sufficient.    
 
 gas questions:
 
 q:  does high octane gasoline help?
 
 a:  maybe, maybe not.  some cars have knock sensors, and can adjust the
     engine timing or turbocharger boost to suit the gasoline being used.
     on most cars, however, you should use the cheapest gas that makes your
     car run well.  check your owner's manual for details on what your car
     needs.
 
 q:  my car was made for leaded gasoline.  will unleaded gas hurt it?
 
 a:  it is possible that unleaded gas may *slightly* increase valve wear,
     although the amoco oil company argues otherwise.  the actual increase
     in valve wear will be almost unnoticeable, however, as modern leaded
     gasolines actually contain very little lead.  you should, however,
     check your owner's manual; many cars from the early 1970s do not
     actually require leaded gasoline.
 
 q:  do fuel treatments help?  what kind should i use?
 
 a:  some do and some don't.  during the winter, it is a good idea to use
     dry gas; however, some may be harmful to fuel injection systems.
     never use an additive containing methanol (sometimes called methyl
     alcohol); such additives may damage fuel systems in cars with carbs
     and almost certainly will damage cars with fuel injection.
 
     manufacturer's opinions vary on additives containing ethanol (sometimes
     called ethyl alcohol); if your car has fuel injection, check the owner's
     manual on your car before  using these.  most manufacturers consider
     10% ethanol acceptable in gasoline.  additives with isopropyl alcohol
     (isopropanol), and petroleum  distillates are fine in fuel injected
     cars.
 
     an occasional bottle of fuel injector cleaner is helpful in cars with
     fuel injectors, although many premium gasolines contain detergents that
     do the same job.  some off brands of fuel injector cleaners contain
     ethanol or methanol; always check the ingredients before putting anything
     in your gas tank.
 
     there are a small number of particularly good additives; these are
     noticeably more expensive that the run-of-the-mill ones, but work
     much, much better.  among these are chevron techron, redline sl-1,
     wurth `lubrimoly ventil sauber', and bg 44k.  a bottle of one of these,
     once every six months, is highly recommended.
 
 q:  what about detergent gasolines?
 
 a:  the quality of detergent packages in gasolines varies somewhat; bmw
     has instituted a testing program, and gasoline brands which pass this
     test may advertise that fact.  stickers indicating passage of the test
     are now beginning to appear on fuel pumps at gas stations.  if such
     gasolines are used, then fuel injector cleaners are probably optional.
     beforewarned that while use of bmw approved gasolines will keep a clean
     engine clean, they may not clean a motor with bad valve deposits.
 
 lubrication questions:
 
 q:  what do the numbers and letters in a motor oil designation mean?
 
 a:  there are several different items encoded.  there is a two-letter
     code indicating the type of detergent package that the manufacturer	
     uses in the oil; this looks like se,sf,cd or such.  the s codes are
     for gasoline engine applications; the c codes are for diesel engine
     applications.  the second letter is assigned in sequence as new levels
     of protection are developed; thus sf is considered better than se,
     se is considered better than sd, and so forth.
 
     the more noticeable designation is the oil weight.  this is either
     a single number (e.g., 30 weight) or a pair of numbers separated by
     the letter w (e.g., 10w30.)  the latter type is much more commonly
     used these days, and are the only type that most automobile
     manufacturers specify in operators manuals.  the first number in the
     designation (10w) is the apparent viscosity of the oil when it is cold;
     the w stands for `winter'.  the second number (30) is the viscosity
     of the oil when hot.  there is a trick here; the oil doesn't actually
     get thicker (turn from 10 weight to 30 weight) as it gets hotter.  what
     is actually happening is that when the oil is cold, it has the viscosity
     of a cold 10 weight oil.  as it gets hotter, it doesn't get thin as fast
     as a 10w oil would; by the time it is up to temperature, it has the
     viscosity of a hot 30 weight oil.
 
     note that these numbers actually specify ranges of viscosities; not
     all 10w oils have exactly the same viscosity when cold, and not all
     30 weight oils have the same viscosity when hot.  note also that the
     novel behaviour of multi-grade oils is caused by additives, and it has
     been reported that with the sole exception of castrol gtx, 10w40 oils
     do not retain their multi-grade characteristics well over time.  10w30,
     15w40, and 20w50 oils work very well, though.
 
 q:  are `quick lube' places any good?
 
 a:  some do adequate work, but there are quite a few incompetent ones out
     there.  let the buyer beware, watch them while they work, make sure
     that they don't overtorque the oil drain plug, and keep your hand on
     your wallet at all times.
 
 q:  are oil additives like slick-50 or tufoil any good?
 
 a:  slick-50 and tufoil are ptfe-based additives.  many of these have
     come onto the market recently; they are different from the moly-based
     additives that have been around since the early 50's.  ptfe is the
     chemical name for teflon(tm), a trademark owned by dupont. in general,
     auto manufacturers do not recommend use of these products.  most usenet
     responses to questions on these additives are favorable (slight
     increase of mpg after application, smoother revving) but long term
     results (whether ptfe additives are effective after 5k miles) are
     debatable.  some manufacturers (such as saab) claim that either the
     product or the engine flush that preceeds application causes
     deterioration of the oil seals and eventual leakage.  some bmw owners
     have reported death of valve seals shortly after the addition of
     slick 50 to their cars.  this writer has been cautioned by a slick-50
     dealer (!) that slick-50 should _not_ be used in japanese motors, as
     it may clog the oil return passages in the engine.  otherwise, there are
     no known reports of damage caused by ptfe additives.
 
     on the other hand, there are satified slick 50 customers in the world.
 
 q:  do synthetic oils really work?
 
 a:  yes, but.  more specifically, most auto manufactuers accept synthetics,
     but disagree with the extremely long oil change intervals claimed by
     oil manufacturers.  auto manufacturers recommend that you continue to
     change oil at the intervals recommended in the owners manual for your
     car.  even if you decide to try the longer intervals, at least change
     the oil filter at regular intervals, as synthetics get just as dirty
     as conventional oils.
 
     synthetic gear lubricants for manual transmissions are another matter
     entirely; amsoil, redline, and agip are very highly regarded and very
     effective.  mobil 1 synthetic gear lube gets mixed reviews, however.
 
 q:  manufacturers are specifying longer and longer oil change intervals.
     how often should i change my oil?
 
 a:  it depends on how you drive.  if your car always (or nearly always)
     gets warmed up, and you don't drive it very hard and keep the revs
     down, the manufacturer's recommendation is probably fine.  if, however,
     you drive it hard, drive it at high revs, or alternatively, if you
     only drive it to and from the supermarket so that it doesn't get up
     to temperature, then you may wish to change oil much more often,
     perhaps at 3000 mile intervals (given that most manufacturers are
     now specifying 7500 mile intervals.)  if you don't drive your car
     much at all (say 7500 miles a year), then you probably want to change
     oil every six months anyway.  if you are storing a car during the winter,
     then change oil before storing it and change oil when you bring it out
     of storage.
 
 misc. questions:
 
 q:  my car has a timing belt.  i hear that bad things happen when they
     break.  what's the story?
 
 a:  it depends on the internal design of the motor.  early ford escorts,
     for example, will suffer severe valve damage if the belt breaks, but
     the newer cars will just require a tow and installation of a new belt.
     some honda motors will not be damaged, but others will be.
 
     if no replacement interval is specified for your car, then change the
     belt at least every 60,000 miles; some cars may require more frequent
     replacement.  ask your dealer or independent mechanic.  also, ask if
     there are any related repairs that should take place at the same time
     (for example, the same ford escorts that suffer valve damage also have
     a timing belt driven water pump, which has been known to seize,
     destroying the timing belt, and which then causes major valve damage
     as a side effect.  replacing the timing belt while ignoring the water
     pump can be a costly mistake.)
 
 q:  why would anyone be stupid enough to design a motor so that it
     self destructs when the timing belt breaks?
 
 a:  for performance reasons.  compromising piston design so that the
     valves and pistons will not collide requires that the compression
     ratio of the engine be reduced significantly; this is why you are
     more likely to avoid valve damage in economy cars than in performance
     oriented vehicles.
 
 q:  what causes unintended acceleration?
 
 a:  the final report of the national highway, transportation, and safety
     administration concluded that unintended acceleration could not be
     caused by any mechanical failure of the vehicle in question and at the
     same time be consistent with the physical evidence.  the nhtsa report
     goes on to conclude that `pedal misapplication' by the vehicle operator
     is probably the cause.
 -- 
 richard welty        518-393-7228       welty@cabot.balltown.cma.com
 ``nothing good has ever been reported about the full rotation of
   a race car about either its pitch or roll axis''  -- carroll smith
 