
 howdy,
 
 i'm a little new to this newsgroup, but i would like to tap some of the
 knowledge and expertise available here.
 
 the subject:  after-market cruise controls
 
 the background:
 i recently broke my ankle in a road-bicycling accident (4 places, five 
 screws, yuk! :-( ).  in two weeks i will be returning to texas (my
 home) from my school (byu) in provo, utah.  as you can imagine, trying to
 drive nearly 1300 miles with a broken right ankle isn't just the epitome of
 a good time.  my car does not have a cruise control, so i would have to do
 all the pedalling (ha ha) with my messed-up ankle.
 
 my question:
 what is the general opinion of after-market cruise control units?  i
 realize that a cheap cc (cruise control) from, say, pep boys, isn't going to
 be as good as a factory or professionally installed unit (if there is such a
 thing).  and i uderstand that i probably can't expect much in the way of
 accuracy, looks and that sort of thing;  but anything's gotta be better than
 trying to drive with a hosed ankle.
 
 i have a 1984 jeep cherokee, 4 speed, standard, 4*4, 2.5l engine with
 kettering(sp?) ignition (y'know, distributor cap, rotor, that set-up--not
 electronic.  maybe you could've guessed it being an '84, but i'm just trying
 to give information as completly as i can).
 
 i found a cc unit for 80 bucks.  it seems to use the vehicles vacuum system 
 instead of an electric servor/motor.  is this good or bad?  if i did buy
 this cc, which vacuum hose should i tap?
 
 it has two speed sensors:  one magnetic, and one that gets a signal from the 
 negative side of the distributor, kinda like a tach pick-up, or so i
 understand.  i can use either one.  which is best?  the manual says (i read
 it in the store today) that the magnetic/axle set-up is more accurate, but
 harder to install.  is there really a big difference?
 
 it has a sensor for the brake pedal, just like other ccs, but does not have a
 sensor for the clutch pedal.  so if i wasn't paying real close attention i
 might push the clutch in while the cruise is trying to get the speed up.  which
 would wind the engine up kinda high until i got my wits about me and turned 
 the thing off.  i'm pretty coordinated, so this doesn't bother me, if it
 were for my girlfriends car, *then* it would bother me, but i'm ok with it.
 
 the installation also calls for an attachment to a steady-on brake signal
 and a switched-on brake signal.  i think i can get a switched brake signal
 from the correct side of the brake light blade fuse.  am i right?  but i'm
 not sure where to get the steady-on brake signal, or, for that matter, what
 exactly it is?  any ideas as to what the manufaturer wants and where to get
 it?
 
 i think i can figure the other things out.  like how to hook-up the negative
 side tach-type sensing gizmo and the cabin control unit, and the ground and
 all that miscellaneous business.  but i need a little help with:
 
 	1.  is it worth the money and safety risk (if any) for such a
 	    device?
 	2.  is there any particularly good after-market cc?
 	3.  are "professionally" installed ccs signifacantly better and
 	    worth the cabbage?
 	4.  if the unit i saw (sorry, no manufacturer or model number, just
 	    that it is at pep boy and its $80) is sufficient for my simple 
 	    needs, how do i get the thing installed properly (specifically,
 	    the questions above)?
 
 my father and i built a "veep" (volkswagen powered jeep cj-2a) when i was in
 high school, so i consider myself fairly good with tools, electronics, and
 cars.  so the installation doesn't scare me.  i just want to be certain that
 i get the thing installed correctly as my cherokee is just a wee bit more
 complicated than my veep. :-)
 
 i appreciate your time in reading my post, and i would appreciate any
 expertise or opinion anybody has on the subject.  if you would like to share
 some of your wisdom, please email as i don't get over this group very often
 (but i check my mail all the time).
 
 again, thanks for any help anyone may have.
 
 mike wieda
 mikew@canc.byu.edu
 
 