
 in article <1qhs7dinnj2b@hp-col.col.hp.com> tvervaek@col.hp.com (tom  
 vervaeke) writes:
 >    ... experience with jeep service dept ...
 >
 while not exactly a service incident, i had a similar experience recently  
 when i bought a new truck.
 
 i had picked out the vehicle i wanted and after a little haggling we  
 agreed on a price. i wrote them a check for the down payment plus tax
 and license and told them i'd be back that evening to pick up the truck.  
 when i returned, i had to wait about an hour before the finance guy could  
 get to me. when i finally got in there, everything went smoothly until he  
 started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had  
 miscalculated the tax & license by about $150. he then said he needed  
 another $150 from me. i said we had already agreed on a price and it was  
 their problem, i wasn't giving them any more money. the finance guy then  
 brought in the manager on duty who proceeded to give me a hard time. i  
 reminded him that i was the customer and i didn't think i should be  
 treated like that and that if he didn't back off he could forget the whole  
 deal. he made some smart remark so i told him where he could stick it,  
 snatched back my check and left. needless to say, they were not pleased by  
 the turn of events.
 
 early the next morning i got a call from the general sales manager wanting  
 to know what happened. i related the story and he apologised profusely and  
 asked if there was anything they could do to change my mind. i told him  
 that if they gave me the truck for free i probably still wouldn't take it,  
 that there were other dealers in town, i was a repeat customer of theirs  
 and that they should learn how to treat customers,etc,etc...i was still  
 pretty steamed about the whole affair. he gave me the line about hating to  
 lose a customer and they would try to find a solution, etc, etc. i told  
 him not to bother, thanks, i'd go somewhere else.
 
 a couple hours later, the owner of the dealership called me, all  
 apologetic, etc, etc, etc, and said that they would cover the $150 plus  
 knock another $400 off the price of the truck. i told him i'd think about  
 it and he gave me his private, direct phone number, his secretary's name,  
 and assured me that they valued me as a customer, etc etc etc....
 
 i thought about it for a few hours and discussed it with my wife and we  
 decided, what the hell...that was a pretty decent deal, so i called him  
 back and accepted his offer. when i went back the next day to pick up the  
 truck, i received the royal treatment. everyone seemed to know about the  
 incident, even the lot boy. everything went smoothly and i was out of  
 there in my new truck in about 30 mins.
 
 so, i guess i'm a reasonably satisfied customer. however, it should not  
 have happened in the first place. i was a bit shocked to have a sales  
 person talk to me like that. i don't expect them to bow and grovel, but i  
 sure don't expect to be given a hard time either, esp. when it's their  
 mistake.
 
 anyway, i'm happy with the truck and it turned out to be a couple hundred  
 dollars under invoice and they paid most of the first year's license fee.  
 i'm not sure whether i'll go back to that dealer, tho.
 
 mark
 