
 wrat@unisql.uucp (wharfie) writes:
 >>compare either to the porsche 911 and you tell me which was designed
 
 >	oh, right.  only 120,000 dollar cars should be driven fast.
 >they drive goddamn rabbits at 120 mph in europe, pal, and i reckon
 >a taurus is at least as capable as a rabbit.
 
 my whole point was not to say that the cars *couldn't* go that fast,
 but that they *shouldn't* go that fast.  a family sedan designed to be
 operable at 85mph doesn't suddenly become operable at 130mph because
 you added some plastic aero effects, slightly wider tires, and a much
 larger engine.  that's what the sho is -- a slightly modified family
 sedan with a powerful engine.  they didn't even bother improving the
 *brakes.*
 
 the mustang is essentially the same deal as the sho -- a big power
 plant stuck in a mid-size sedan, with almost no other modifications.
 i have real-life experience with the mustang -- it handles like a
 brick (except when you're invoking oversteer, of course, something i
 personally avoid doing on the highway) and stopping power is
 inadequate even from 80mph.  lots of accelleration -- but the rest of
 the car is not up to par.
 
 i picked the porsche example because they are designed with speed in
 mind.  it didn't have to be the 911 -- it could have been the much
 cheaper 944 or one of several mercedes or audi models.  all of these
 cars are fairly expensive -- but so are the parts that make them
 drivable at high speed.  this should be elementary.
 
 there are a few things to keep in mind about europe, since you brought
 it up.  my autobahn knowledge is admittedly second-hand, but i believe
 the following to be true:
 
 1. drivers are much better disciplined in europe than they are here.
 2. the roads comprising the autobahn are much better designed than
    they are here, and usually include animal fences.  this makes them
    far more predictable than most us highways.
 3. not all of europe is the autobahn.  most places in europe have
    speed limits that aren't out-of-line with what we used to have in
    the us -- if my friends weren't lying to me they're typically not
    much higher than 120km/h.
 
 i strongly suspect you won't find a lot of rabbit owners doing 120mph
 (nearly 200km/h) on the autobahn, but i could be wrong.  some people
 have no respect for their own lives.
 
 >>you certainly haven't convinced me.
 
 >	of course not.  "speeding-is-bad.  speeding-is-illegal. 
 >i-will-not-speed.  i-love-big-brother."  you had your mind made up
 >already.
 
 if you think so you sure don't pay attention to my postings.
 
 jim frost
 jimf@centerline.com
 