
 
 my bbb autoline arbitration experience is over.  
 the outcome was decidedly mixed.  i won the battle but 
 lost the war.  the arbitrator found that the car was 
 defective, but decided to offer a repurchase well below 
 market value :(.  at the time of the hearing, average 
 retail on my truck in the nada book was $21,025, but 
 the decision was for  $17,665.  i wrote a letter to the 
 council of better business bureaus pointing out the 
 fact that if you have an automobile that does not 
 depreciate rapidly, the manufacturer has no incentive 
 to deal with you.  there is no way that the 
 manufacturer can loose because they can turn around and 
 sell the vehicle at a profit if the consumer is awarded 
 a repurchase.  the attitude of chevrolet's 
 representative at the hearing tends to support this 
 point of view;  he was totally unprepared and did not 
 seem to take the proceeding very seriously.
 
 i decided to take the repurchase, even though i am 
 getting totally screwed on the price.  i will not have 
 to deal with continuing repairs or selling a lemon 
 myself, and i have no case for a civil suit based on 
 the idaho lemon law.  i am planning to send a letter to 
 my elected representatives telling them how utterly 
 ridiculous the idaho lemon law is.  the law allows for 
 a "use deduction" equal to the irs mileage allowance.  
 as if chevrolet were buying my gas and paying 
 for my insurance.
 
 summary of the case:  in may 1992 i bought a new 3/4 ton
 hd chevrolet pickup.  between may 1992 and december 1992 
 this vehicle required repair after repair.  systems 
 that required attention included the transmission, 
 heater fan, paint, suspension, and motor.  the main 
 problem was the five speed manual transmission.  they 
 could not install a non-defective transmission in at 
 least four attempts.
 
 so, in summary, it is possible to get a repurchase, but 
 you are going to get screwed on the price, unless you 
 paid too much in the first place, or if your car 
 happens to be a model that depreciates rapidly.
 
 jackw@hpdmd48.boi.hp.com
 
 