
 
 here is a press release from the u.s. department of energy.
 
  energy secretary hails president's plan for alternative fuel
 vehicles
  to: national desk, environment and energy reporters
  contact: larry hart of the u.s. department of energy, 202-586-5806
 
    washington, april 21  -- secretary of energy
 hazel r. o'leary today said president clinton's executive order on
 alternative fuels will make the federal government a "driving force
 behind efforts to increase the availability of both alternative
 fuel vehicles and fuel supplies."
    president clinton signed the order today, which calls for
 federal purchases of alternative fuel vehicles in numbers over the
 next three years at least 50 percent higher than those called for
 in the energy policy act of 1992.
    president clinton also announced that texas land commissioner
 gary mauro will head up the federal fleet conversion task force to
 advise o'leary on implementation of the executive order.
    "i am delighted that i will be working with gary mauro to make
 this happen," o'leary said.  "as land commissioner, gary mauro has
 helped make texas a national leader in converting the state fleet
 to alternative fuels, and has been a tireless proponent of natural
 gas vehicles in speeches across the country."
    the task force is to issue a report within 90 days recommending
 a plan and schedule of implementation.
    "the department of energy and all of us in government must lead
 by example if the option of alternative fuels is going to become a
 practical, affordable choice for fleet owners across the country,"
 o'leary said.  "increased use of domestically-produced alternative
 fuels means reducing pollution while creating jobs.  we believe
 that energy efficiency, protecting the environment, and a healthy
 economy are complimentary goals."
    o'leary said that plans call for the department of energy to
 coordinate the agencies' five-year purchase plans, help with
 funding for extra purchase or conversion costs, and work with gsa
 to encourage development of the fuel infrastructure needed to make
 fleet conversions practical.
    under the order, the department of energy will also be working
 with states, local governments and industry to coordinate vehicle
 purchases and encourage manufacturers and fuel suppliers to make
 alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels more widely
 available.
  -30-
 --
 canada remote systems - toronto, ontario
 416-629-7000/629-7044
 