
 
 in a previous article, gwm@spl1.spl.loral.com (gary w. mahan) says:
 
 >>why should a good driver be terrified at 130mph? the only thing i fear
 >>going at 130 are drivers, who switch to the left lane without using
 >>either rear-view-mirror or flashers. doing 130 to 150 ain't a rush
 >>for me, but it's fun and i get where i want to go much faster.
 >
 >in defense of the drivers, who are in the right lane.  here in the states, people simply do not expect when they are driving to be overtaken at a speed differential of 50+mph.  i don't think this is because they are stupid (of course, there are exceptions), they are just programmed because of the 55mph limit. do you (in the states) when you look in the rear-view always calculate future  positions of cars based on a 50+ speed differential.  
 >dont get me wrong, i love to drive in the left lane fast but when i overtake
 >cars who are on the right, i slow down a tad bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car, to recognize the speed differential, i would be the stupid one.  
 
 just to satiate my curiosity, why would this make you the stupid one?  it seems
 to me, everybody should be aware enough of what is going on.  you do not need
 to calculate the future position.  you need to look at your mirrors a little
 more.  if you glance around, you will be able to tell how much faster than you
 the car is going.  maybe not precisely, but well enough to know if you should
 let him around before you try to pass.  i know what you are talking about,
 about the other driver being startled, because i myself have been startled
 by drivers cruising by at around 90-100mph when i'm doin 55-65.  the problem,
 though, as i saw it, was not their fault for barreling around me, but my fault
 for not paying the attention to my task-at-hand that i should have been.
 oddly enough, since the 2nd time(happened 2x in around 4 mo. when i'd had my
 liscence for around 6 mo), i haven't been startled..and i've been passed by
 cars doing roughly twice the speed of my car.  another odd occurance is the
 fact that this only seems to happen on long trips...and if i drive along with
 them, it doesn't happen at all :-) even on the long trips! :-)  (adrenaline
 will do that to you...i've had bad cop experiences with speeding, so anything
 over the limit is adrenalizing for me...scared i'll get caught :-)  maybe
 they should raise the limit, so we can pay better attention.....
 
 just curious, and my .otwo
 
 drew
 