
 in article <1qvrnpinnnid@shelley.u.washington.edu> yongje@hardy.u.washington.edu (yong je lim) writes:
 >here is a story.  i bought a car about two weeks ago.  i finally can
 >get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all maintanence
 >history of the car.  in between '91 and '92, the instrument pannel 
 >of the car has been replaced and the odometer also has been reset
 >to zero.  therefore, the true meter reading is the reading before
 >replacement plus current mileage.  that shows 35000 mile difference
 >comparing to the mileage on the odometer disclosure from.  the 
 >dealer never told me anything about that important story.
 >
 >i hope that i can return the car with full refund.  do u think this
 >is possible?  does anyone have similar experiences?  any comments
 >will be appreciated.  thanks.
 
 this is a tricky situation; if the previous owner didn't inform
 the dealer of the odometer change, then the previous owner committed
 fraud, and he may be liable. the dealer may also be liable; if the
 previous owner notified the dealer, or if the previous owner had the 
 dash replaced at a dealer, or if the previous owner had the dash changed 
 legally, any records search on the car should turn up the fact that
 the odometer had been altered.  if a dealer changes the speedometer, he has
 to report it (it goes into the car's service record with the manufacturer,
 and on the title, if i remember correctly; the dealer told me that
 the old mileage, etc. were sent to ford when my t-bird's speedo 
 was replaced). if the odometer can be set to the old mileage, it must 
 be; if it can't (eg, electrically-driven odometers) then the mileage 
 of the old odometer must be written on a permanent sticker which is 
 affixed to the door frame of the vehicle. 
 
 either way, if the change had been done legally, then a records search
 (which the dealer almost certainly did) should have turned it up.
 
 call your state's department of transportation/public safety/motor
 vehicles--or your tag agent--to find out for certain what your
 rights are. your state's attorney general will know for certain ;-)
 
 				james
 
 james p. callison    microcomputer coordinator, u of oklahoma law center 
 callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu   /\    callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu   
 disclaimer: i'm not an engineer, but i play one at work...
 		the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t-bird sc
    "it's a hell of a thing, killing a man. you take away all he has 
 	and all he's ever gonna have." 
 			--will munny, "unforgiven"
 