
 my 85 caprice classic with 120k+ miles has finally reached
 the threshold of total number of mechanical problems that
 i am forced to post :).  anyone out there who might be
 able to give me some pointers on one or more of the below,
 please e-mail or post!
 
 1. when making turns, especially when accelerating,
    there is usually a loud "thunk" from the rear of
    of the car.  sounds like it could be the differential.
    what could cause this?  is the differential going
    bad?  i recently had the differential fluid changed,
    and it did have tiny metal bits in it.  (and no,
    the sound is not something rolling around in the
    trunk!)  
 
 2. on starting the car, i get blue (oil) smoke from
    the exhaust for 5-10 seconds.  exhaust valves
    going bad?  worn rings?  anyone know whether the
    valves on the 4.3 tbi engine can be lapped?
 
 3. brakes.  more pedal travel than i feel comfortable
    with, but master cylinder is full and fluid is
    relatively clear.  pedal does not slowly sink to
    the floor when held down.  pedal does not feel
    spongey, but i suppose that bleeding the brakes
    might help -- could anything else cause this?
 
 4. tranny.  tranny problems seem to be slowly getting
    worse -- takes almost 2 seconds to downshift from
    3rd to 2nd on heavy throttle application, and more
    recently, it is reluctant to shift from 2nd to 3rd.
    fluid (checked with car running with tranny put
    through all the gears and then back to park, as per
    haynes manual) is red and clear, and is on full mark.
 
 5. my springs all around are just about shot -- i have
    4 new shocks on, but car still skips out on bumps
    in turns at moderate to high speed.  how hard are
    they to change?  can they be reconditioned?
 
 i'd be interested in hearing from any gm full-size rwd owners
 out there with stories to tell and/or advice.  here in philly,
 these cars are apparently stolen(!) quite often and converted
 into taxis.  apparently the cab conversion shops will get a
 junk title for the car or switch vins with a car about to be
 junked.  about 60% of philly cabs are caprice's, with most of
 the rest being crown vic's with a few old new yorkers and
 impalas (& broughams).
 -- 
 andrew white
 awhite@mcneil.sas.upenn.edu
 