
 from article <1993apr21.190251.14371@sequent.com>, by troy@sequent.com (troy wecker):
 > 
 > earlier i commented on the valentine-1 and jimf@centerline.com replied
 > about the value of the units "bogey" counter.  i didn't really go into
 > why i called this feature a gimmick so here is more explanation.  thanks
 > jim for the good comments and opinion.
   .
   .
   .
 
 > from what i understand the valentine-1 can only tell if these
 > microwaves are coming from the front, rear or both.  there are only
 > two antennas.  if they are coming from both this in interpreted as a
 > "side bogey".  bogey counts are determined as sources by their
 > relative strength to one another even if they are reflections of the
 > same source.
   .
   .
   .
 
 it sounds like your analysis is based on hypothesis and not
 actually using the valentine-1.  i'd like to give some feedback based on
 real life experince.  i keep the valentine-1 in advanced logic mode
 and it rarely lights up as a christmas tree.  the only time it does
 is when i am in the middle of a major shopping area and then it makes
 sense that is does since there are >= 8 sources coming from many different
 directions.  i have found the valentine-1 to be consistent in its
 reporting of bogeys regardless of any moving cars in the area.
 
 i have found the directional indication to be very useful.  in one case
 there was two radar traps set up within one mile of each other.  as i
 passed the first radar trap, the direction indication changed.  then
 the detector was set off again pointing in the forward direction.  with
 other radar detectors i would have assumed that this was due to a reflection.
 but with the valentine-1 i knew there was a high probability that there
 was another trap.  and there was!
 
 on other occasions, the directional helped discern a false alarm from
 a true alarm.  for example, as i pass a source, the direction indicator
 changes.  the directional also allows me to focus my attention as to where
 the signal might be coming from instead of having to look all over the 
 place.  when a car is approaching me from the rear with a detector
 that leaks, i can tell that the signal is coming from the rear and as the
 car passes me i can verify the source.  with other detectors, i would
 have been unable to do this and would have had to assume that there was a radar
 trap when there was none.
 
 i've had the valentine-1 for several months now and find its added features
 to be useful and not gimmicks.
 
                                        -barry
 -- 
 -----                                                                   --------
 barry frishberg                                             blf@apollo.ch.hp.com
 chelmsford-uk expert center                                      508/tn 436-4319
 chelmsford, ma                                                 
 