
 >gibbonsa@fraser.sfu.ca (darren gibbons) writes:
 >
 >i'm looking for information on opel cars.  now you ask, which model?
 >well, the sad truth is, i'm not entirely sure, but it's a two-seater,
 >with roll-over headlights, hard top, and really sporty looking.  my
 >friend has one sitting in his yard in really nice condition,
 >body-wise, but he transmission has seized up on him, so it hasn't run
 >for a while.  does anyone have any info on these cars?  the engine
 >compartment looks really tight to work on, but it is in fine shape and
 >i am quite interested in it.
 
 that would be the opel gt, sold in this country from '69 to '73.  it originally
 had a 1100 cc engine, which was later replaced by the 1900 cc.  it was based
 on the old kadett drive train and suspension, with leaf springs in the rear
 and a single transverse leaf spring in the front.  it looked good, but was
 limited as a performer.
 
 there has also been some discussion in this thread about the manta and other
 models.  in 1971 opel introduced a new line of models, the 1900 series, that
 were also known as model numbers 51, 57, etc.  these cars had the newer
 1900cc engine and were available as two and four-door coupes, a station wagon,
 and a "sport coupe", known in europe as the manta.  at the same time, there
 were two 30-series cars, which sold very few numbers, that also had the 1900
 engine but the kadett suspension.  the sport coupe, (model 57) was also
 available as the rallye, (57r), with a blacked out hood, tach, and fog lights,
 but was mechanically the same except for a numerically higher rear end ratio.
 
 in 1973 the sport coupe was also named the manta in the us.  1973 was the last
 year for the gt in any country, both because of the us bumper height regulations
 and the fact that fiat exercised an option on the factory that opel was leasing
 to build the gts.
 
 the 1900 series continued in 1974 with minor body differences.  in 1975, the
 manta, 1900 sedan (also called the ascona) and the wagon were available with
 bosch electronic fuel injection.  these cars also had larger brakes and
 wider wheels.  these cars were starting to compete with the 1975 buick century
 low price leader of the time, and were the last opels imported into the us.
 
 from 1976 to 1979, cars that sported buick/opel badges were still sold by
 the buick dealers, but were rebadged isuzu i-marks.  the idea was to call them
 opels instead of changing the dealers' neon signs.
 
 various models of the 50-series cars dominated the showroom stock racing of the
 70's in their class, and were known as serious 2002-competition.
 
 parts are still available from a number of sources.
 
 (i still have a '73 manta and two '75 sedans and all the trick parts i could
 collect in 20 years).
 -- 
 john kennedy                     uunet!opel!johnk
 second source, inc.              johnk@secondsource.com 
 annapolis, md
 