
 
 >does anybody have any information on the second generation broncos? (i'm
 >not talking about bronco ii's, i'm referring to the broncos that began
 >production in 1978 based on the f-150 chassis i believe)
 
 	ahh broncos.  well personally, i have a '78.  the blue book is just
 a hair over 3 grand.  i bought it for 2500 and then bought new tires 650
 front end rebuild 350, carb rebuild 130.  then i did the unthinkable
 and blew the engine (not bronco specific, unmaintained engine with 168,000)
 2400 more bucks there, now it is in nice condition, well after new seats out
 of a t-bird, radio, 2 amps, speakers, alarm, well the radio and amps were 
 free and i bought the speakers used for 40 bucks, and the other speakers
 i took out of my old jeep (sell a jeep for a bronco you might ask,
 but it was a wagoneer).  its a lovely specimen, solid front and rear
 axels, ford 9" and a dana 44 up front.  watch the rear axel wrap, i 
 busted off my u-bolts once, i added traction shocks after that and 
 haven't had a problem since.  also the bottom of the doors tend to 
 rot, bottom of the tailgates likes to rust right up to the new ones
 that might be in your budget.  the post 80 broncos have that sickly
 ttb front end and little stamped and folded steel radius arms were
 as the 78-79 have nice big cast iron longer radius arms(ie more prspective
 wheel travel).  the only rust i have is on my doors and a few
 dings in the sheet metal.  i don't know when the removeable tops were
 discontinued but they are fun.  i just ordered a full convertable top
 for 400$ for mine(credit card).  don't ever break the window if you
 have the double laminated bronzed privacy glass in your cap it is over
 400 bucks to replace.  my bronco also does pretty good offroad,
 i haven't bottomed out my suspension, yet, and have crossed over
 3 foot deep of water with no problems, handles rocks like a charm too.
 one problem is it is wide and you sometimes can't follow a cj or a
 toyota, between two rocks or trees, and your grandmother will have
 a hard time getting up into it.
 
 bob
 