
 in article <otnm3b1w165w@cybernet.cse.fau.edu> vlasis@cybernet.cse.fau.edu (vlasis theodore) writes:
 >
 >i can put a 32valve v-8 with twin garret-4s on yugo and get 7.7sec qm.
 >thats useless ... its still a yugo that will loose any race on a track,
 >or on the street.
 
 a yugo that will go 1/4mi in 7.7 seconds will _not_ lose on the
 street. that's just too damn quick. it might be wrapped around
 a telephone pole at the end of that quarter mile, but it will
 be there alone...
 
 >have you detroit beings compared the ultra-long-throw stick shifts of
 >the 5.0 with the 93 mr2 turbo or 93 rx7 (i ll buy it in 6 mos) ?
 
 or you could replace the stock shifter with a hurst short-throw
 shifter (available from ford motorsport), or any number of other
 after-market products to boost the performance of a mustang or
 camaro. can you do _that_ with a '93 rx-7, or, verily, with _any_
 mr-2? with the detroit aftermarket, you can build a mustang or
 camaro which is superior to either car you mention for less than
 the sticker price of either.
 
 >or the torsen differential of the rx7 compared to the differential of 
 >the 5.0 that sounds in every hairpin turn ?
 
 well, gee. it works, and it doesn't break. it transmits power to
 the drive wheels, and it's essentially zero maintenance--and there's
 an aftermarket in parts for ford and chevy rear-ends, too.
 
 >and bythe way 5.0 and camaro both have drums on the rear breaks ...
 >hello , this is the 90 's ?
 
 well, the '93 mustang cobra (which, from all reports, uses the
 same running gear as '94 mustang) has 4-wheel disks. i can't
 speak for the new camaro, but i think it does, too.
 
 also, stop and think about the markets here. the mustang is, and
 always has been, a mass-market sporty car (that's where the
 "pony car" class came from) with a performance model. that's
 why it has the econo-box running gear. that was also factored
 into the design of the mustang from the day lee iacocca conceived
 his baby; it was designed as a wide-market car--sporty, yet 
 accessible--with room for performance tweaking.
 
 the cars you listed are designed for a specific market niche,
 and they both fit those niches very well. the mustang, at least,
 does well in multiple markets; i can't speak for the camaro.
 
 				james
 
 james p. callison    microcomputer coordinator, u of oklahoma law center 
 callison@uokmax.ecn.uoknor.edu   /\    callison@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu   
 disclaimer: i'm not an engineer, but i play one at work...
 		the forecast calls for thunder...'89 t-bird sc
    "it's a hell of a thing, killing a man. you take away all he has 
 	and all he's ever gonna have." 
 			--will munny, "unforgiven"
 