 ED MILIBAND last night snubbed a pledge from Nicola Sturgeon to make him PM by declaring: “It’s a no”. 
 He rebuffed the invitation for a “progressive” alliance during the latest leader’s election debate . 
The live BBC programme also featured Green party leader Natalie Bennett and Plaid Cymru’s Leanne Wood – who both backed Sturgeon’s call to lock out David Cameron.
 UKIP leader Nigel Farage was there but Cameron and Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg were not. 
During a confident performance from Sturgeon, she told a UK-wide audience she would help put Miliband into power if he promised to be better than the Tories.
 But Miliband told her: “I’ve got fundamental disagreements with you, Nicola. 
“In the last couple of weeks you’ve revealed you haven’t ruled out a second referendum on independence in the next five years.
“We’re just very different, we’ve got very different views.
“I respect your views that you want to break up the country, but that’s not my view.
“I think that would be a disaster for the working people of Britain.

 “We have profound differences between us, that’s why I’m not going to have a coalition with the SNP . 
“I’m never going to put at risk the unity of the United Kingdom.
“It would be a disaster for us to start competing with each other, driving down wages, dismantling the basic state pension which is the foundation of security in retirement – and dismantling our country.
“So, it’s a no.”
Miliband kept relatively low-key in the debate. And a snap poll by Survation showed he was judged the “winner”.
He was backed by 35 per cent, compared with 31 per cent for Sturgeon.
And viewers favoured Miliband as PM over Cameron 45 per cent to 40 per cent in a head-to-head.
But Sturgeon clearly won over the independently selected audience on topics ranging from immigration to defence and housing.
She was judged the best performer with 35 per cent against 29 per cent for Miliband. Sturgeon had the most “appealing personality”, with 30 per cent support.

And she was applauded at the end for trying to push Miliband into agreeing a post-election deal. She said: “I will never, ever do a deal with the Tories – let me make that crystal clear.
“The polls, though, show that Ed isn’t strong enough to get rid of the Tories on his own.
“So I will work with Labour, with Leanne, with Natalie, so that together we can get rid of the Tories.
“I want Ed to replace the Tories with something different, something better, something more progressive because progressive change is what the country is crying out for. That’s my offer to Ed Miliband.
“If he’s prepared to be better than the Tories then I’m prepared to work with him to allow him to replace the Tories, which is what I think many people want to see.”
Sturgeon took a softer approach to Labour than in previous clashes but still had sharp criticism on Labour spending plans.
She said he was “scared to be bold”.
Sturgeon added: “I think it’s time not for a pretend alternative to austerity – it is time for a real alternative to austerity.
 

“If Labour won’t be bold enough on its own, I think people should vote for parties who will hold Labour to account and make them bolder.
“I don’t say there’s no difference between Ed Miliband and David Cameron – I say there is not a big enough difference between Ed Miliband and David Cameron.”
Miliband said he would continue fighting for a majority government, which polls suggest is not likely. Labour face a desperate battle against the SNP – and could lose most of their seats in Scotland.
Asked about potential coalitions, Miliband said: “I have an old-fashioned view – let the people decide.
“I want a majority Labour goverment because I think it’s the best thing for the country.”
Although dominated by the tussle between Miliband and Sturgeon, Farage was vocal on key UKIP issues.
Astonishingly, he even picked a fight with the audience at the debate, chaired by David Dimbleby. He complained the crowd was too left-wing “even by BBC standards”.
Farage played to type by suggesting foreigners are to blame for economic problems.
He said the “bloated” overseas aid budget should be cut and new social housing should be for UK citizens only.
He also tried to whip up division by saying he’d stop sending Scotland so much cash “over Hadrian’s Wall”.
 

What did we learn from last night’s debate? The most revealing thing was that the representatives from the Greens, UKIP, the SNP and Plaid Cymru talked about protesting against David Cameron.
 That’s fine. But Ed Miliband was the only person in the debate who can replace David Cameron . That’s a fundamental difference. Ed offered a vision of a better and fairer country for working-class families. 
What we also saw was the difference between what Nicola Sturgeon says in Scotland and England.
In England she talks tough about ending austerity. Yet when she’s in Scotland she gets exposed on the SNP’s plan to cut Scotland off from UK-wide taxes and spending – and the devastating consequences that would have for the most vulnerable Scots.
The debate made the choice facing Scots clearer than ever. A Labour government on the side of working-class people or a Tory government imposing more failed austerity.
 

LAST night, we saw another hugely impressive performance by Nicola Sturgeon – making the clear case for a strong team of SNP MPs at Westminster to make Scotland’s voice heard and deliver progressive politics for everyone across the UK.
No one party will win an outright majority at this election – so this means we must build bridges between progressive parties to deliver change.
Holding the balance of power at Westminster, the SNP can make a Labour government bolder and more progressive, and bring an end to austerity, enabling us to invest in public services and tackle inequality.
As Nicola Sturgeon made clear tonight, if Ed Miliband is prepared to be better than the Tories then the SNP are prepared to work with him.
The real question for Ed Miliband is would he rather see David Cameron back in Downing Street than work with the SNP?
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

