
 i'm a biker and a dog-lover.
 
 first and foremost, i want to mention some common sense.  if it's a choice
 between injuring/killing a dog or getting yourself injured/killed, there is
 only one rational decision.  only the most insane animal rights kook would put
 the dog first.
 
 second, it's useful to learn how to read a dog's body language.  how you react
 to a dog who is chasing you because he thinks it's a game (and that you're
 playing with him) is completely different from how you react to a dog which
 has hostile intent.
 
 third, it's useful to learn how to present yourself to a dog.  dogs are social
 beasts, and recognize a domination/submission hierarchy.  to a dog, there are
 two types of fellow-creatures; that which he dominates, and that which
 dominate him.  you need to unambiguously represent yourself as being of the
 latter class.  you are god: you are easily angered and your anger is terrible.
 but god is also amused by one who properly submits to his dominance, and may
 even on rare occasions dispense a kind word, a kind word, or even (oh joy oh
 rapture unforeseen) a dog bisquit!
 
 now, how does that all relate to biking?  well, first, it's a good idea to
 assume that most dogs who chase motorcycles do so because they think it's a
 game, and not out of overt hostility.  the msf suggestion is a very good one;
 when you see the dog coming, slow down so he determines a particular place of
 interception.  just before you (and he) reach that spot, punch the throttle so
 that when he reaches it you're already long gone.  dogs take a few seconds to
 react to new input, and definitely cannot comprehend the acceleration that a
 motorcycle is capable of.
 
 with a hostile dog, or one which you repeatedly encounter, stronger measures
 may be necessary.  this is the face off.  first -- and there is very important
 -- make sure you never face off a dog on his territory.  face him off on the
 road, not on his driveway.  if necessary, have a large stick, rolled up
 newspaper, etc. (something the beast will understand is something that will
 hurt him).  stand your ground, then slowly advance.  your mental attitude is
 that you are very angry and are going to dispense terrible punishment.  the
 larger the dog, the greater your anger.
 
 dogs will pick up anger, just as they can pick up fear.  and, since you and he
 are not on his home territory, it may suddenly dawn on the dog that perhaps he
 is on your territory, and that you are prepared to fight to the death.
 
 most dogs will decide that it is a good idea to retreat to their own territory
 where there is at least a home advantage.  they'll also observe that you are
 satisfied by that retreat (gesture of submission) and thus they have escaped
 punishment.
 
 the interesting thing about dogs is that body language communicates a great
 deal to them.  the more effective you are at communicating body language, the
 less you actually have to do.  after 7 years with my 93 pound beast, i've
 learned a few tricks i think...
 