
 for those of you who are thinking about fiamms, you might also want to think
 about airhorns. i just installed a set of bosch air horns ordered from 
 dennis kirk (pg. 282 of the latest catalog) on my '85 fj1100. they are rated
 at 93db at 7 meters. i installed them using 10 gage wire from the battery to
 the relay to the compressor to ground. my stock horn connectors fit the relay
 pins just fine. i soldered the connections to the relay and compressor, and used
 a crimp type battery connector and an inline 10amp fuse/connector from napa.
 	i installed the compressor just forward of the fuse box in the front
 fairing by tie wrapping between the steering head frame and the black steel tube
 frame used to support the front fairing. you have to remove the front fairing to
 do this, but it fits outside of the frame but inside the fairing on the two
 vertical supports just in front of the fuses. depending how tight your fairing
 follows the frame, you should be able to fit it somewhere in the fairing.
 the compressor is about 2" in diameter and about 5" long.
 	the relay mounted on the front of the steering head frame (it is small
 so there should be plenty of good places for it.
 	i found a perfect place for the horns that required only tie wraps to
 mount. the horns fit inside the front fairing/frame and stick out on either side
 just in front of the air scoops, but behind the turn signals. the back of the
 horns point back towards the center of the bike and come real close to where
 the gas tank connects to the front part of the frame. there is just enough
 room to the outside to allow full lock to lock clearance, and there are nice
 cut outs in the frame for the back of the horn to go into.
 	the short horn is even with the fairing, and the long one sticks out
 about an inch or so, but it is really not that noticable unless you look
 closely. they end up pointing down slightly and maybe 30 degrees from straight
 ahead (perfect for those cagers trying to change lanes into you).
 	if you have any other questions about the mounting, email, and i can try
 to explain better. if your bike is not red, then you may want to paint them
 first.
 	how do they work you ask? they are very, very, very *loud*. they sound
 more like a european sports car than a truck, but a vast improvement over stock.
 i have used them at least daily since installing them, and the 10 amp fuse has
 not blown yet (although, the duration of the horn blasts have been short).
 	i've repeatedly scared the shit out of my friends with them, even though
 they know that i have the horns, they still jump. they are perfect for keeping
 the pedestrians on the sidewalk.
 the bottom line is they work, are loud enough to cause pain and suffering to
 those stupid lane changing cages (as well as take a few years off their lives)
 and are relatively easy to install on the fj. ymmv.
 
 -tjk
 '85 fj1100 with "get out of my way" horns.
 "that looks like a suit you'd fight a fire in" -comment about the aerostich
 