
 in article <c5t759.dsc@well.sf.ca.us> rwert@well.sf.ca.us (bob wert) writes:
    i need some advice on having someone ride pillion with me on my 750 ninja.
    this will be the the first time i've taken anyone for an extended ride
    (read: farther than around the block  :-).  we'll be riding some twisty, 
    fairly bumpy roads (the mines road-mt.hamilton loop for you sf bay areans).
 
 communication:  work out your own system.  or just slow down and holler
 back every once in a while.  at reasonable speeds, even on my under-muffled
 magna, we can hear each other.  it's only above, say, 45 mph that you 
 can't really communicate.
 
 balance: new passengers are a real pain, because you never know how
 they're going to react to steering.  some people catch on immediately
 and lean with me.  others are completely skittish about the leaning
 thing, and keep their bodies perpendicular to the horizon.  this is a
 pain while turning, but manageable.  the worst are the passengers who stay
 perpendicular to the horizon, then remember in the middle of a turn
 and whip around until they're in the `correct' position.  this always
 screws up the line i've picked out.
 
 here's my personal checklist of things to tell passengers:
 	- attire: helmet, long pants, boots/heavy shoes, jacket.
 	- keep feet on pegs at all times, unless i say otherwise.  do not
 	  get on/off unless i say you can.  (i've had people try to dismount
 	  in traffic, just as i'm pulling in to a parking space!)
 	- muffler gets hot! ('nuff said)
 	- we get *good* traction.  we're not going to fall over.  (many
 	  first-time riders are surprised by how tightly you can turn!)
 	- turn dynamics:  sit so that you feel like you're sitting upright and
 	  we're going straight.  trust your butt, not your eyes -- if you're
 	  confused, close your eyes for a couple of turns to get the feel
 	  of it.  or just hug me tight.  
 	- please, no sudden moves -- shift your weight as desired, but be 
 	  gradual, so i can compensate.
 	- your faceplate is yours to open/close as desired.
 	- trust is essential.  trust the driver (me) to do the right 
 	  thing -- i've driven many miles on this thing, and know how
 	  to operate it.  enjoy the ride.  (this is important to
 	  stress.  for example, one of my first-time passwngers seemed to 
 	  watch the speedo like a hawk:  i drove her to the beach down 84, 
 	  and whever we topped 35 mph, she'd holler, "slow down! i'm scared" 
 	  i humored her for a while, then simply covered the speedometer with 
 	  the spare piece of duct tape i keep stuck to the top of the cluster.
 	  problem solved:  she watched the scenery instead of the
 	  instruments, and had a much better time.  based on her
 	  experience driving a lincoln continental, she was unwilling to 
 	  trust my ability to choose a safe speed for the bike.)
 
 usually i'll point out the controls, engine, transmission, brakes, 
 tires, etc. and discuss motorcycle physics a bit too for first-timers.
 helps calm their nerves, and gives the bike a chance to warm up.
 
 watch out for gravel on the mt. hamilton road:  there were lots of little
 mudslides after the last big rain; by now, many of the blind corners will
 be nicely covered with a carpet of little, round, nearly invisible stones.
 it doesn't help build trust when you slide out on a blind corner, on the 
 first trip!
 
 good luck -- have fun!
 --
 don't drink soap! dilute dilute! ok!
 