
 
 in light of the last letter i posted from jeff brody concering the crap
 that is going on in the moa, (which some folks took not as dissemination 
 of information that i received, but as my own bad mouthing) i thought that
 i would post this one, which came to me yesterday.  this is from board member
 robert higdon to moa pres chich morse.  this is not my words, o.k. guys?
 
                                    april 4, 1993
 
 re:  cecil king's nominating statement 
 
 dear chick:
       we have a very serious problem with the election for president of the 
 moa this year.  cecil king's nominating statement (as it appeared in the
 owners news) is 968 words, nearly twice as many as that is permitted by
 the by-laws.  in pertinent part, the rules state:
 
 "each candidate's biography and position statement shall be limited to
 a combined total of no more than 500 words. the nominating committe shall cut afafter the 500th word any biography and position statement exceeding this length.
 
     obviously the nominationg committe was not up to the task.  had cecil's
 statement been cut as required, it would have concluded approximately with
 the word "undertiding" [sic] in the second paragraph after the commencement
 of his position statement.  as a result, cecil has obtained what i view as a
 grossly unfair advantage over the other candidates for president.  this does
 not just taint the election for that office; it makes a mockery of the 
 process.  i would appreciate your advising the board immediately what steps
 you intend to take to rectify this caricature of a fair election.
      parenthetically, in your private correspondence with others, i would
 be most appreciative that when tou call me an "asshole" you remind the
 letter's recipient that the re-publication of such a comment is almost
 guaranteed to have woeful consequences.
    with kind regards, i remain,
                                  robert higdon
 
 o.k. moa'ers, you read it, think for yourself, i trust you do know who
 cecil king is, and that he was editor befor don douglass, and he is
 a pres. candidate.  i let you draw your own conclusions.
 regards,
 craig vechorik
 bmw moa ambassador #9462
 bmw vintage bulletin tech editor
 dod #843
 "real bmw's have two wheels" <-- politically correct statement
 
 