
 in article <1993apr21.130512.147@linus.mitre.org> cookson@mbunix.mitre.org (cookson) writes:
 >in article <93apr20.211127.44984@acs.ucalgary.ca> parr@acs.ucalgary.ca (charles parr) writes:
 
 >>i bought it, i tried it:
 >>it is, truly, the miracle spooge.
 >>my chain is lubed, my wheel is clean, after 1000km.
 
 >i'd try it on the vfr, but goddamn competition accessories hasn't mailed my
 >order yet.  hell, it's only been two weeks and i was ordering some pretty
 >bizzare stuff.  like a clear rf-200 face sheild, and a can of chain wax...
 >bastards.
 
 for what it's worth, i got my can in three days from chaparral. that's
 ups ground from ca to ut, ymmv. the stuff seems to work, and it doesn't
 attract grundge like pj-1 blue does. i gave it the acid test, a full
 day's worth of breaking in the quadracer's new paddle tires down at the
 sand dunes. if there's anything wet & stickey it will be coated with
 sand at the end of the day, but the chain looked pretty clean.
 
 as far as mail-order goes, if chaparral has it in stock (and they can
 tell you if it's in stock, or about how long it will take to back-order
 it if it's not), i usually get it in three days. competition accessories
 always seems to take a week or two to deliver. motorcycle accessory
 warehouse also takes a week or two, and after trying to buy some boots
 from them last week, i don't think they actually stock anything. maw was
 about $30 cheaper than chaparral on alpinestars tech 7 boots, but on
 monday i was hoping to get them by the end of the week, so i asked maw a
 completely unreasonable question: "do you have them in stock?" the
 conversation went something like this:
 
 i need to know if you have some boots in stock.
 
 	do you want to pay with visa or mastercard?
 
 i want to know if you have them in stock.
 
 	well, the computer doesn't show anything, i'd have to call the
 	distributer to find out if we have them.
 
 so do you have them or not?
 
 	don't you understand what i'm saying? i have to call our
 	distributer to find out if we have them in stock or not.
 
 uh, right. so can you do it?
 
 	yea, call me back in an hour, and ask for phil.
 
 so an hour later phil isn't there, but mike says he'll check, and call
 him back in half an hour. half an hour later mike isn't there either,
 but he left a note that says they'll have them by the end of the month
 (3 weeks away). screw it, the 30 bucks isn't worth the hassle. i called
 chaparral and asked if they had them in stock:
 
 	ooh, alpinestars? probably not, they are hard to keep in stock,
 	but i'll check. what size?
 
 size 10.
 
 	let's see, yes! size 10, in blue & white, gray & white, black...
 
 i'll take the blacks!
 
 this was about noon on monday, they arrived thursday morning. once
 again, three days via ups ground. i _like_ chaparral.
 
 i'm not completely down on maw, they often have lower prices, but be
 prepared to wait.
 
 oh, and if anyone's in the market for sand tires and other atv stuff,
 scorcher seems like a good outfit, friendly, fast, had the tires i
 wanted in stock, and were cheaper than chaparral too.
 -- 
 blaine gardner @ evans & sutherland
 bgardner@dsd.es.com
 