
 in article <c5t759.dsc@well.sf.ca.us> rwert@well.sf.ca.us wrote:
 > i need some advice on having someone ride pillion with me on my 750 ninja.
 > this will be the the first time i've taken anyone for an extended ride
 > (read: farther than around the block  :-).  we'll be riding some twisty, 
 > fairly bumpy roads (the mines road-mt.hamilton loop for you sf bay areans).
  
 > this person is <100 lbs. and fairly small, so i don't see weight as too much
 > of a problem, but what sort of of advice should i give her before we go?
 
 my fiancee' and i do quite a bit of sporty riding 2-up.  i'll tell you 
 what we've found and the systems we've worked out.
 
 - on starts, accelerate much slower than usual.  it's tough for the rider
 to judge how scary fast acceleration is, because we're holding onto something
 and leaning forward.  remember this.
 
 - on turns, have her lean forward and at the same angle as you (normally 
 this means she isn't leaning at all.)  it's very disconcerting to be leaned
 over and have your passenger leaning so that they're sitting straight up.
 much balance is lost and this can be dangerous.
 
 - on slowing and stopping, do so much slower than usual.  again, it's tough 
 for the rider to judge how scary fast deceleration is, because we're holding 
 onto something and leaning forward.  however, you'll figure it out fast
 because braking too fast will shove the passenger forward into you, which 
 shoves you into the tank at an inopportune location.
 
 - generally, have the passenger keep her knees against you and the bike, not 
 out wide.  this helps balance and gives her somegrip.
 
 - when you passenger is in fear, she will squeeze her knees against you.
 normally this means "slow down, and do it now!".  
 
 
 > turning so she leans *with* me, but what else?  are there traditional
 > signals for slow down!! or go faster!! or i hafta go pee!! etc.???
 
 we only have a couple signals.  "slow down" is her either tapping me on 
 the back, or slapping my helmet with all her might.  depends on the urgency
 of the matter :-)
 
 "turn here" is done by her pointing in the direction of an exit.  this is
 also the sign for "cool!  look at that."  "i hafta pee" is the same sign
 as "turn here".  "i'm hungry" is the same sign.  "go faster" is usually
 done by her jumping up and down on her pegs in glee.  i usually see "slow
 down" more often than "go faster".
  
 > i really want this to be a positive experience for us both, mainly so that
 > she'll want to go with me again, so any help will be appreciated...
 
 the best thing to do before the ride is to talk to a riding buddy, and 
 pillion on his or her bike.  it's incredibly frustrating, because you're 
 in almost no control.  now, multiply that feeling times ten, because
 you as a rider know what your bike will do, and your passenger will likely
 feel you're about to scrape hard parts all the time, or lock up the brakes
 at any moment, or go careening off the edge of a volcanic mountain, etc.  
 pillioning yourself is good training to take somebody on your pillion pad.
 
 also, remember that it's much more draining and tiring to ride 2-up
 than by yourself, because you're concentrating on much more, and
 "in the zen of the moment" less.  remember this.
 
 ----------------------------------------------------
    pat loughery [patlo@microsoft.com] seattle, wa
 	 dod #393, ama, vme, dioc, 1ksi=2.53
  '91 vfr750f, '91 nighthawk 750, '82 seca 650 turbo
 		^^^ for sale
 ----------------------------------------------------
 