
 csundh30@ursa.calvin.edu (charles sundheim) writes:
 
 >some potentially cool story stuff here... do share the details.
 
 	how to get a verbal warning for 146 in a 55
 
 it's simple.  first, it has to be the first really nice riding day
 of spring.  the bike is back together again, and so are you.  grab
 all your gear, put it on, and fill the tank with 94 octane premium
 or better.  head out.
 
 	in ames, there is a road that leads to the little town of
 gilbert.  gilbert has one stop light, if that tells you something.
 having just gotten the bike back together, i thought i'd take it
 for a short ride and check things out.  heading out of town, i
 went into the twisties at a slow pace, just under the speed limit,
 and started leaning around.  the pace quickened as everything felt
 just right.  finally, the road straightened and i was ready for a
 bit of speed.  grab third gear, open her up.  at roughly 90mph
 grab fourth gear.  look at as much of the bike as you can, and fail
 to notice a state trooper following a quarter mile behind.  twist
 the throttle like a fool, grab fifth gear at 130 or so, and see
 just how well she's been put back together.
 
 	at 146 (according to radar) i noticed the front fender was
 flexing a bit.  thus, i slowed, pulled off the road, removed my
 helmet and gloves, unslung the took kit i was carrying in a fanny
 pack, and was just starting to tighten that fender when the trooper
 pulled in all hot and flustered.
 
 	"have you *any* idea how fast you were going?"
 "not precisely, no.  i was paying attention to the bike and road,
 not the instruments.  i just got her back together last night, and
 i'm just out here testing her out before i ride it in traffic."
 	"my radar says you were at over 145mph.  care to tell me why
 i shouldn't give you a ticket?"
 "because i was testing the motorcycle away from population and
 traffic, on a strait and flat road, while wearing all the protective
 gear that safety demands?" (note: i wasn't quite that eloquent)
 	"say, what kind of bike is that, anyway?"
 <i was eloquent on my cafe racer replica honda 750, a rat bike>
 	"yeah, i haven't had my bike out of the garage in years."
 <compare riding stories>
 <pack toolkit, having tightened that fender>
 	"so why were you out here?"
 "i figure every other idiot on the road is going to look right through
 me.  if the bike fails somehow in a 35mph zone, i'm dead.  if it holds
 up out here, then i know it will work right in traffic.  i do this
 evvery year when i rebuild her."
 	"not any more.  you'll find a better place than *my* highway
 to do those speeds.  if i *ever* catch you speeding on my highway
 again i'm going to nail you for everything i possibly can.  now get
 out of my sight before i write you a ticket."
 "yes, officer."
 	"and kid, keep your eyes open out there..." <drives off>
 
 	and that, in a nut-shell, is how to get a warning for 146 in a 55.
 i don't guarantee that it will work for you, but it worked for me.
 
 < dan sorenson, dod #1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu >
 <  isu only censors what i read, not what i say.  don't blame them.  >
 <     usenet: post to exotic, distant machines.  meet exciting,      >
 <                 unusual people.  and flame them.                   >
 