TRAGIC Scott Chiriseri’s parents tore themselves apart over their involvement with Walter Masocha’s controversial religious sect.
Tichakunda, the boy’s father, was a member of the congregation in Stirling – while his mother Farai Chirashi attended some sermons in 2013.
Friends later suggested his dad’s deepening involvement with Masocha contributed to the break-up of his marriage – a split which plunged Farai into a deep depression.
Zimbabwean-born Chirashi, 32, went on to stab her son to death last December.

She carried out the killing at the family home in Alva, Clackmannanshire, as part of what she believed was a “mission from God”.
Chirashi launched a frenzied knife attack on five-year-old Scott as a young girl cowered terrified in the house.
The final text message she sent to a friend read: “The Kingdom of God is near. Repent and return to God and give your life to Jesus.”
Earlier this month, the High Court in Glasgow found her not guilty of murder by reasons of insanity.
Now a former Agape insider has claimed some church members labelled the tragic mum as “demon-possessed” after her separation.
She said: “The way they look at it, if you don’t want to be part of the church, it means you have some demon possession or you’re not right in the head – or you’re being used by the Devil.
 

“When I joined the church, Tichakunda was already part of the church and Farai wasn’t coming.
“He was under pressure because his own wife wouldn’t come to church.
“It was something that was spoken of by Agape members at that time.”
She continued: “He wasn’t the only one.
“Even in my branch, there was a man who had separated from his wife and two kids because they wouldn’t come to the church.”
Chirashi’s close friend Esther Wilson, who grew up next door to her, said the mum-of-two had no support after the break-up and it became “too much for her”.
“Something must have triggered that madness. What that was, I don’t know,” she said.
“The way they were doing things at the church was one thing Farai wasn’t happy about. Her husband wanted the family to join but she wasn’t interested in it.
“Those people used to come to her house and hold Bible studies. She didn’t like that.
“I think this all contributed to it. In the end, she had nobody around her.”
Another friend, Simon Dick, added: “Agape say they are a Christian church but they worshipped the church leader more than God.
“If someone questioned any of the church’s teachings, they would be cut off. They would ostracise you.
“There is this idea that you will have bad omens cast against you. People in this country don’t believe that, but for many Africans it is the truth.
 

“In this country, that bad omen or curse would be what we call depression.”
Neighbours of the church’s leader complained to Stirling Council in 2006 and alleged he had been performing religious ceremonies in his and nearby gardens.
One claimed he saw an exorcism taking place on his front lawn. Masocha denied it and the council took no action.
A church spokesman said yesterday that they held “laying on of hands” healing ceremonies, but rejected the use of the word “exorcism”.
The claims are supported by Masocha’s deaconess victim, who told a court that she left Agape after members of her own family tried to have her sectioned.
She said: “I entered this church happily married and I came out being told that I was demon-possessed.
“I was there for just over two years and I ended up losing my house and my marriage.
“I lost everything and I am still trying to rebuild my life after what happened to me in Agape.
“My husband and I were like any happy and normal young couple. He was very committed to me, to the children and was a loving family man.
“But I didn’t want to go to the church because we were always broke and were spending too much money on the church.
“Because I said these things, I was pronounced as mentally unwell or possessed by Masocha.
“They tried to exorcise me a few times, to cast demons out of me.”
She explained that Masocha’s followers would often conduct prayer meetings in the house which she owned with her husband.
And they would travel the length of the UK to listen to Masocha at various conferences.
It was during one such “conference” in Swansea that she was forced into an exorcism.
She said: “I was listening to it and I just turned and said to my husband, ‘I am not doing this any more, I want to go out and sit in the car.’
 

“So I left the service and was followed by the pastors. They took me back and locked me in a bedroom where they exorcised me against my will.”
She continued: “I even had the pastor doing all sorts of things to me. I had men restraining me, touching me where they shouldn’t be touching me.
“My dignity was stripped away from me.”
The woman claims that when she finally did leave the church after her assault, her husband was convinced by Masocha to separate from her.
She explained: “A husband cannot even take phone calls from his ex-wife.
“You cut her out completely. You are not even allowed to speak with her.”
Her claims against Masocha were denied by church members, who rallied to back the self-styled prophet.
She explained: “My husband even wrote a letter to the police to say that I was lying and that I had mental health issues.
“But it was only when other people started coming forward, such as the young girls, they took this whole thing very seriously.
“There are so many women who have similar stories.
“Some of them are even so scared to come out. I was just brave because I’d gone through the worst...
“It had already happened to me, my dignity was stripped and I thought, ‘What have I got left to lose?’”

