THERE were heartbreaking scenes as the coffin containing the body of murder victim Karen Buckley
was carried from her funeral mass.
The victim’s father John had to be consoled by his sons, Brendan, Kieran and Damien as the coffin was placed in the hearse.
Mr Buckley broke down and openly wept and had to be comforted by his sons and other family members.
The hearse was flanked by a guard of honour made up Karen’s nursing friends from her student days at University of Limerick.
The little church of St Michael the Archangel in Analeentha church in Mourneabbey, near Mallow Co Cork was packed to capacity for the moving funeral mass.
A large marquee which had been erected in the church grounds to cater for those who could not get into the church was also full.
Included among the mourners were police officers from Scotland involved in her murder investigation.
Her three brothers brought items to the service that represented her personality, achievements and her love for life.
Brother Brendan brought up a picture of Karen’s first day in Analeentha National School.
Most recently Karen was studying for her Masters in Occupational Health Therapy and brother Kieran brought up Karen’s nursing uniform. Karen graduated as a nurse in 2014.
Her third brother Damien took Karen’s favourite dress that she wore to Brendan and his wife Niamh’s wedding.
Her friend Katie Twohig said: “Karen’s life revolved around family, friends and goodness.
“The best tribute we can pay to her is to imitate the virtues she put before us and find ways of being people who cherish family, friends and goodness.”
A 21-year-old man has been charged with Karen’s murder in Glasgow.
Parish priest Father Joseph O’Keeffe told mourners: “Death is sad at any age, but our feelings concerning death are not always of the same degree.
“To us Karen was a young woman, a friend.
“To her family she was a cousin, a niece, a sister-in-law, a sister, a daughter, a child.
“It is most difficult then for them, but in particular for Karen’s parents, John and Marian, to associate the cradle to the coffin.
“One represents the beginning of life and the other represents the end.
“And it is doubly sad when the two are so closely linked.
“We are deeply, deeply saddened when the life of someone so young is cut short, and in Karen’s case, so tragically and horrifically so, by the curtain of death. “
“Karen’s death seems so utterly inappropriate. It violates our sense of order.
“In our view of life, death and childhood are poles apart, and twenty-four years simply does not seem the right time to die – it does not seem to add up.
“But my final word is the one, I feel, we most need to hear. It is Faith.
“Within the scope of human reason, a tragedy such as this simply doesn’t make sense.
“Therefore we either despair or find our strength in faith. Others before us have faced this same tragedy and have opted in favour of faith. “
Farmers gave their fields for parking as space was so limited.
 

Karen’s burial will take place in Burnfort Cemetery.
A poem called ‘Karen’ was written and read out by her cousin Siobhan Leahy.
She said: “Small and gentle, Honest and true, Our sister Karen, How much we will miss you.
“These days gone by, Have only showed, The love for you, That this world holds.
“From green country fields, A small country school, To a national university, And international studies too.
“A nurse with plans, A woman full of dreams, An adventurer who travelled, And in fun and laughter revelled.
“A smile to lift a thousand frowns, Brown eyes shining – big and round, A country girl – big hopes, big plans, Big heart, big smile and caring hands.
“How great you loved, How much you cared, How much you gave, How much you shared.
“Sleep easy Karen, you’re now at rest, Throughout your life you gave your best, How much we miss you, we can’t fully express.
“We love you Karen. Final commendation Mass will conclude with the final commendation.
“This will involve the incensing of the coffin, blessing with holy water and the final prayers.”
Around 300 people attended a vigil in Glasgow’s George Square earlier this month, including Ms Buckley’s parents John and Marian.
Karen's body was flown back to Ireland ahead of her funeral. 
On Monday, thousands of sympathisers gathered in Mallow, Co Cork to pay their respects to the family at Karen’s removal.
 
