 MORE than half of Scots plan to vote SNP , according to a poll for the . 
 The extraordinary findings – which show 51 per cent would back Nicola Sturgeon’s party in the general election – will upend decades of political certainties if they are repeated on May 7. 
And the SNP leader yesterday looked like a politician who knows things are going her way as she tucked into a scone and cream while campaigning in Kilmarnock.
 Our poll leaves Scottish Labour teetering on the brink of oblivion, with just 26 per cent of Scots  planning to vote for them despite Ed Miliband ’s improving fortunes in England and Wales. 
The bombshell survey by experts Survation would see the nationalists pick up an astonishing 55 of Scotland’s 59 seats.
 The record high for the nationalists was yesterday backed up by pollsters TNS, who put the SNP on a whopping 54 per cent . 
 The results would see a host of prominent politicians lose their seats – including Scottish leader Jim Murphy – as areas previously considered Labour fortresses defect to the nationalists. 
The results cap a torrid few weeks for Murphy, who has seen all his efforts at closing the gap on Sturgeon backfire.
The SNP’s rating of 51 per cent is up four points from our last poll in March. Support for Labour has stayed static at 26 per cent.
Survation

 
 The Tories dropped two points to 14 per cent and the Lib Dems rose one point to a still humiliating five per cent. 
If our results were repeated in the vote, the SNP would win 55 seats and Labour just three. The Lib Dems would lose all but one of their 11 Scots MPs and the Tories would be entirely wiped out in Scotland.
SNP insiders were last night putting the polls down to Sturgeon’s impressive showings in the TV debates and dominance of the UK news agenda.
 

The poll also showed the SNP leader enjoys amazing trust ratings with the public.
A remarkable 22 per cent of Scots say they “completely trust” the First Minister, compared with just two per cent who “completely trust” Murphy.
Meanwhile, a further 26 per cent “mostly trust” her and 16 per cent “slightly trust” her. Only 12 per cent “mostly trust” Murphy, while a further 20 per cent “slightly trust” him.
SNP general election campaign director Angus Robertson was last night trying not to get carried away by the results.

He said: “This is another welcome poll. It indicates that our positive campaign to make Scotland stronger at Westminster by electing a team of SNP MPs has very broad appeal, but we’re working hard for every vote AS we take nothing for granted.
“More anti-Tory MPs than Tory MPs in the House of Commons means that we can lock David Cameron out of Downing Street – so voting SNP delivers a strong voice for Scotland and progressive policies for the whole UK, including an end to cuts.”
But Scottish Labour deputy leader Kezia Dugdale last night warned the SNP surge would put unpopular Tory Prime Minister David Cameron back into power.

She said: “The choice facing voters next week is between a Labour Government who will spend every minute making life fairer for working class Scots or the SNP who will use a good result to take us down the road to another referendum next year.
“We can’t go back to that kind of division when there is so much inequality in Scotland that needs to be tackled.
“If this poll is repeated on election day, the SNP will be happy but David Cameron will be delighted.
“A vote for any party other than Labour risks the Tories being the largest party across the UK and David Cameron waltzing back into Downing Street.
“This isn’t the time for a protest vote against the Tories, it’s the time for a Labour vote to replace the Tories.”​
 

Our poll also looked ahead to the 2016 Holyrood elections and put the SNP on an incredible 54 per cent for the constituency vote compared with Labour’s 24 per cent.
On the regional list vote, the SNP are on 45 per cent compared with Labour’s 21 per cent.
The poll of 1015 Scots was carried out by Survation between April 22 and yesterday.
  Find My Seat: A quick guide to the candidates standing in your constituency 
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

