VILE Kelvin MacKenzie sparked outrage on after he said Scots living in England should be shipped back to Edinburgh as &quot;McBoat people&quot;.
In a rant in the Sun newspaper, MacKenzie used the humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean to take yet another pop at Scotland, or “Jockestan”.
MacKenzie, the Tory paper's former editor, said: “Get those Libyan people smugglers to bring their boats to the Thames and we will load up all the Jocks and drop them off in Edinburgh.”
He said folk down south should send for boats for Scots if the UK breaks up because England votes to leave the EU and Scotland votes to stay in but, true to form for the two-faced paper, MacKenzie's rant is conspicuous by its absence from the Scottish edition of the paper.
Sneering once more at Scottish values, MacKenzie said: “We’re funding them as we do their free prescriptions, free university places, free etc.
“The sooner they are off the payroll the better. If the UK votes to leave the EU (and I hope they do) the Scots say they will stay in.
“On that basis we should then repatriate all the Scots making good money down here.&quot;

MacKenzie was editor of the Sun for 13 years from 1981 when the paper worshipped the hated Tory government of Margaret Thatcher.
He has previously used his Sun column to brand Scots as ‘Tartan Tosspots’.
ON social media people from across the UK put the boot in.
On Twitter David Officer said: Always rely on Kelvin Mackenzie to take the anti-Scot hate speech up a notch. Calling for repatriation of Scots from England is disgusting.”
And @JarlOfCaledonia said:” If Scotland is to make progress we have to learn to ignore the likes of Kelvin MacKenzie.”
Another twitter user from the Liverpool area recalled the Sun’s disgraceful reporting of the 1989 Hillsborourgh disaster.
He said:”This piece gives a reminder to the background of this vile human.” 
And another user on Merseyside said:”If Kelvin Mackenzie keeps up his attacks on Scotland and the SNP I predict requests for a candidate in Liverpool soon.” 

