A SCOTS lottery winner owes his love and his millions to his partner’s best friend after scooping more than &pound;7.5million from the lottery.
Philip Dunning was getting ready for bed when he got the phone call from pal Sandra Easton telling him he had hit the jackpot on Saturday.
Eleven years earlier, the 46-year-old introduced Philip to his long-term partner Gina Meikle, handing over her phone number and telling him to call.
Celebrating at the Inchyra Hotel and Spa in Polmont, 44-year-old Philip said there may finally be the sound of wedding bells for the happy couple - but he’d have to ask her first.
Philip, a shift manager for Caledonian Produce, who lives in Bo’Ness said: “It was about quarter past nine on Saturday night that we received the phone call from my partner’s best friend telling us that we won the lottery jackpot.
“It’s still kind of a surreal situation at the moment, still can’t quite take it in, I’m in a state of shock but I’m sure over time that that will become reality.
“The phone call was quite short and simple. It was ‘Switch on your tv, you’ve won the lottery’. “So of course that was the first thing that we actually did.”
More lottery news
 

The father-of-two, who resigned from his job of 15 years on Monday, continued: “It’s a set line of numbers that we’ve been playing basically since the lottery inception and Sandra knew because my partner and her are best friends.
“She’s always said to us ‘I’ll check the lottery every Wednesday and Saturday and if you win I’ll give you a phone’ and that’s exactly what she did.
“We all worked in the same factory and it was Sandra that actually passed on Gina’s phone number to me saying ‘if you’re interested, give her a phone’.
“That was eleven years ago and I’ve never looked back.”
When asked if he would now get married to his long-term partner, he said: “Possibly. I’ll need to ask her first.”
Apart from a &pound;1000 lucky dip win, this is the first big windfall Philip has had but pledged to continue playing in the future.
He hopes to buy a new house and upgrade his 03 plate Vauxhall Astra with a &pound;220,000 Aston Martin.
The winning ticket was bought on Saturday from the Newtown Post Office in Bo’Ness and was sold by shop owner Mohammed Sajid.
He said Philip was a regular in the shop and he was “absolutely thrilled” for him to have won.
The 49-year-old said: “He’s always very quiet and very polite and that’s how I remember him. “I wasn’t sure who he was at first but yesterday everyone was coming in telling me I’d sold a winning ticket but I couldn’t quite put the name to the face.
“I’m really glad he’s won. He’s one of our regulars and he always buys his tickets from us. We’ve had winning tickets before but never one this big.”
Philip and partner Gina have walked away with a whopping &pound;7,864,529.
The winning numbers were 4, 11, 27, 28, 30, 49 with 47 as the Bonus Ball.
Try today's quick quiz:

