A SCOTS family have revealed how they were five minutes from certain death in the Nepal earthquake.
David Knox was on holiday with his wife Aileen and four-year-old daughter Jess when they found themselves at the centre of the 7.8 magnitude tremor.
They had been visiting the temples in the iconic Durbur Square in Patan when they decided to make a trip to a nearby museum on Saturday.
Five minutes later the earthquake struck and they could only watch as the temples in the square crashed to the ground - killing many of those inside.
Their holiday of a lifetime quickly turned into a nightmare with their plans to return home to Scotland the following day scuppered amidst all the chaos.
In a phone call from the British Embassy in Kathmandu48-year-old David, a journalist with the Border Telegraph in Galashiels, said: “We were in Patan which is the city next to Kathmandu when the earthquake happened.
“We had been on the temples in Durbur Square with my little girl Jess getting some photographs taken on the last day of our holidays.
“We decided to pop over to a nearby museum, paid our money to get in and were just climbing the stairs when the craziest thing ever happened.
 

“We were getting thrown from side to side, wall to wall.
“We looked out the window across to the square and watched as the temples crashed to the ground
“It was devastation after that.
“We took refuge in some gardens for about four to five hours with after-shock followed by after-shock
“There is nothing left of the square.
“If we had still been there we would have been gone, there is no doubt about it.
“We are so lucky to have got out of there with just five minutes to spare.”
After spending two days at the paralysed airport in Kathmandu trying to get a flight out, the family spent Monday night on the floor of the British Embassy in Kathmandu hastily trying to re-arrange their travel plans.
David said: “We were denied entry into India despite having a boarding pass.
“But we have been told we will get on one of the army flights taking all the British back to the UK, probably on Thursday.
“We had two nights on the floor at Katmandu Airport and are now currently holed up at the British Embassy.
“But fingers crossed we will get away soon.
“But I have to say we have been fantastically looked after by the British Embassy, the British Army and the Gurkhas.”
After the disaster struck, relatives and friends anxiously tried to get information about their whereabouts.
Eventually on Monday night on his Facebook page David wrote: “Despite a terrible few days we are all in good spirits and hopefully will see you all before the weekend.”
 

The United Nations yesterday said eight million people have been affected by the massive earthquake - more than a quarter of Nepal’s population.
They added international aid has started arriving but there is still huge need with 1.4million requiring food aid.
The 7.8-magnitude quake destroyed buildings in Kathmandu and severely affecting rural areas across the region.
The death toll has risen to 4,310, with almost 8,000 injured.
Nepal and surrounding areas have continued to experience aftershocks. Thousands of people in Kathmandu have spent a third night outside, too afraid to go back into their houses.
Water, food and electricity are in short supply and there are fears of outbreaks of disease.
Scots actor Ewan McGregor has helped launch a Unicef appeal for aid to help the children affected by the disaster.
 
Meanwhile, a Scots hiker was still listed as missing yesterday.
 

Dad-of-two John Aitkenhead, 61, originally from Dumfries, is listed on the Nepal Earthquake website which is administrated by the International Committee of the Red Cross.
It is thought the former farm worker and staff nurse left some weeks ago for the trip to Nepal.
John has lived in various locations across Scotland including Inverurie, Fort William and Edinburgh.
He has two sons Stewart, 31, and Hamish, 29 from his first marriage to Jacqueline in 1983.
Both his sons are thought to be working outside Scotland.
John married his second wife, Rachel, in 2003 when the couple were living in Edinburgh.
His family could not be contacted last night.
Another Scot thought to have been missing has now contacted relatives to say she if fine.
Ann Hardie, from Fife, was on a retreat in the country when the disaster struck.
But yesterday a family member told how the 46-year-old from Kirkcaldy had contacted relatives via social media.
Meanwhile, Celtic have donated &pound;5000 to the earthquake appeal.
Tony Hamilton, CEO of Celtic FC Foundation, said: “We are sure that this &pound;5,000 donation from the charitable arm of the football club will help in some way, but the Disasters Emergency Committee will need much more support from across the world.”

