A 12-year-old Scots girl won a prestigious BAFTA award for Best Actress.
Hannah Ord from Strathaven was awarded the BAFTA Scotland New Talent gong for her lead role in the short film Last Night in Edinburgh.
The film tells the story of teen sisters Zahra and Hoda – played by Hannah – who discover that their family holiday abroad is really a plan by their parents to deliver them both into forced marriages.
It sees the girls flee home to find their own ways of remaining in Edinburgh, testing the limits of their bond and the resolve of the adults who control their futures.
Hamilton College pupil Hannah, who attends the UK Screen Acting Academy, said she couldn’t believe it when her name was read out at the ceremony in The Arches in Glasgow last night.
She said: “It feels amazing to have won, I still don’t know if it’s real or not because everyone is so much older than me.
“I just can’t believe it. I’ve only acted a little before so to have won a New Talent award is so exciting. I’m definitely going to keep acting because I love it.”
Her acting agent at UK Screen Acting Academy, Stuart McGowan, added: “Last Night in Edinburgh was cast throughout the UK and we were therefore delighted that Bita Shafipour chose Hannah.”
There was also a double win for Patata Tortilla, a short that scooped the Drama award and the Writer award, supported by Creative Scotland, for Ben Howard. The Entertainment award was given to The Wee ‘Hings, a short film commissioned by the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games Opening Ceremony that was screened to over 40,000 people at Celtic Park before the Games began.
BAFTA Scholarship Programme recipient, Steven Cameron Ferguson, won the Camera/Photography award and then went on to win the prestigious Best New Work award, supported by Channel 4 – the final prize of the night, billed as a best-of-the-best award, as he was selected from among the 13 other category winners.
In 2013, Steven was one of ten students awarded funding by BAFTA to help with post-graduate schemes as part of their programme of UK scholarships.
Steven was awarded &pound;10,000 towards the MA Cinematography at the National Film and Television school.
Muriel Gray, ceremony host, said: “It was an honour to host the British Academy Scotland New Talent Awards once again.
“This was another year of incredible talent and I wish all winners the best of luck in their future careers.”
Jude MacLaverty, Director of BAFTA Scotland, added: “The British Academy Scotland New Talent Awards reflect up-and-coming talent in Scotland across film, television, games, and animation, and once again Scotland has shown it has a wealth of creative talent. It has been wonderful to encourage and applaud emerging talent tonight and congratulations to all of our very worthy winners.”
 Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz: 

