MORE than 100 hospital porters are striking to protest over pay and conditions – and bullying bosses.
The staff at Ninewells and Royal Victoria hospitals in Dundee say the industrial action is a “last resort” and they are fighting to secure their jobs and the future of the NHS.
Dad-of-two Nicky Lamond is at the centre of the dispute which is spiralling into a bitter battle of wills with management.
The 38-year-old was last month suspended for posting a message on Facebook criticising NHS Tayside HR director George Doherty.
Nicky posted a photo of his sleeping three-year-old son JJ with a placard on him saying: “Heard enuf of George Doherty’s sh***, it’s zzzzzzz.”
Speaking from the picket line Nicky, who is married to a Ninewells nurse, said: “We believe in the NHS and want to safeguard it not just for ourselves but for the future of children like JJ.
“But we want our pay scales to be fair and on a par with the rest of Scotland’s hospital porters. At the moment, it’s not and we are being unfairly discriminated against.
“We have the full backing of Unite and the public who think the situation is outrageous. We are in for the long haul.
“We have offered two arbitrations and the strike action was a last resort – up to now our protests have been very measured and escalated very slowly.
“I posted the message on my private Facebook page which was only accessible by friends – I don’t know why I’ve been suspended.”
The porters have been on strike for two working days a week for the past month and plan to start all-out action next Tuesday.
They claim they’re owed &pound;6million in pay stretching back to 2004 as a result of an administrative blunder. This has been denied by the health board, who claim unions agreed to the pay scale.
The dispute intensified yesterday when it was revealed a hospital manager is being probed for allegedly twice using “foul, abusive and explicit” language at striking porters.
The man has not been suspended as the probe continues, which has angered union bosses.Unite regional organiser Colin Coupar said: “One of our porters was suspended for a post with indecent language but, when a senior member of staff does it, there is no suspension.”
Doherty said he had written to Unite last Friday to ask them to take part in a review into the grading of porters, adding: “I’m very disappointed they have yet to accept this opportunity.”
He also says Unite are refusing to provide emergency cover for a strike planned for Tuesday, adding: “I’m concerned at what we believe to be an unacceptable disregard for the safety of patients.”
Try today's quick quiz:
 
