HERO Scots soldier Shaun Cole was killed by a hit and run driver in Miami, it emerged today.
The 22-year-old had been in the United States for a music festival when he was found dead on a pavement with serious head injuries last weekend.
Police in the US have now told the Royal Scots Borderer's family they think he was hit by a car and left to die in the street.
A statement issued by the Army on behalf of the family said: &quot;We would like to inform everyone that Miami Police are now following a line of inquiry that would suggest that Shaun was involved in a hit and run incident. We would like to thank Miami Police and Consular staff and everyone who has offered support to our family over the last few days.&quot;

The British Consulate in Miami had agreed to release details of the hit-and-run to end speculation and said the details surrounding Shaun's death were still being investigated.
Shaun, a veteran of two tours to Afghanistan, was on a round-the-world trip with his pals after returning from an Ebola mercy mission to Sierra Leone.
The group of pals went to Miami for the Ultra Music Festival, which attracts dance music fans from all over the world.
Shaun, from Edinburgh , got separated from his friends after telling them he was going to the toilet.
 

They looked for him when he failed to return after 20 minutes but couldn’t find him, so they went to the motel where they were staying several miles away to see if he had gone back there.
There was no sign of Shaun at the motel so the friends left again to continue searching but spotted a heavy police presence nearby.
They went to investigate – and saw Shaun on the ground.
Police cordoned off the area where the body was found and searched the motel. According to reports in the US police are treating the case as murder.
 

Pal Jamie Lothian, who was onthe trip with Shaun, said on Tuesday as he returned to Edinburgh: “Still can’t get my head round any of this and would like to thank everyone for the support back home.
“Shaun was the nicest person I ever met in my entire life and there was not a day of my life that went by that I wasn’t speaking to him no matter where in the world we both were and the support he has got at this horrible time is nothing more than the hero deserves.
“A true gentleman and down to earth guy loved from all. Love you brother. Forever in my heart, mind and thoughts.”
 
