VETERAN golf commentator Peter Alliss has blasted rule changes that let top clubs admit women as members.
The BBC’s Voice of Golf, now 84, said the move to gender equality has “b***ered up the game”.
Alliss claimed many women are against bringing male-run clubs into the 21st century – because they can no longer play for free or at reduced rates.
His outspoken remarks were yesterday condemned as “terribly outdated.”
Alliss, who will guide viewers through the US Masters from Friday, insisted that changes to the rules since the Equality Act of 2010 had “caused mayhem” for many female players.
He said there had been a “hell of a row” since St Andrews and Royal St George voted to admit women members while Troon and Muirfield, who also hold the Open, are reviewing policy.
He told the Radio Times: “All of the wives of members at these clubs could have used the &shy;facilities for free.
“When I was at Muirfield a couple of years ago talking to the ladies, I said, ‘What about this equality? You must be happy?’ ‘God no,’ they said. ‘We come here and do what we like. We can play and don’t pay anything.’”
He added: “Equality for women – a few people battled to get it and they have b***ered up the game for a lot of people.”
Alliss, an eight-time Ryder Cup player who has commentated for 54 years, added: “I’m told the Ladies Golf Union lost 150,000 members since equality came in. Hundreds of women have left clubs because they’ve gone from paying half fare to full fare.”
 

Ladies Golf Union’s finance director Sam Burton blamed the recession for a drop of 30,000 members in four years from 189,000 in 2010.
She said: “I wouldn’t dream of joining a club where women had fewer rights than men. Neither would my friends.”
She said women didn’t play for free on their husbands’ memberships at &shy;mainstream clubs, adding: “I can’t agree with what he’s saying, it’s a terribly outdated view.”
Alliss insisted he was not a dinosaur, saying: “I’ve moved very well with the times. But there are certain standards that have been there forever.”
But his days at the BBC might be numbered. Next year’s Open will be the BBC’s last before it moves to Sky Sports.
ONCE upon a time golf clubs had separate bars for the ladies, gentlemen were required to wear blazers, there was always a retired Major in the bar and professionals were not allowed in the clubhouse.
Fortunately, those days of institutional snobbery are fading fast. At a time when stalwarts such as Scotland’s Catriona Matthew continue to flourish and England’s teenage sensation Charley Hull is making a big impact on tour, there should be nothing to discourage women from taking up the game.
Golf is in many ways a game of tradition, many of them wholly admirable and worth upholding in this fast-moving, transient age.
A Victorian idea of equality is not one of them.
Try your hand at our daily sport quiz:

