BRAVE Jak Milligan’s life was transformed by brain surgery and now he’s working to raise &pound;100,000 to help other epilepsy patients.
The 11-year-old from Dumfries has been free of seizures for three years since his op at London’s Great Ormond Street Hospital and he no longer needs medication.
Jak, mum Julie, dad Keith, sister Abbie and supporters have already raised &pound;60,000 for a new neuroscience centre due to open at GOSH next year.
And as they launch a big push for support to get to &pound;100,000, Jak has penned an emotional letter about his experience.
He wrote: “For five years I had horrible seizures.
“I just fell down without knowing, it’s not nice.
“The hospitals looked after me good but the medication made me feel funny and didn’t help.
“GOSH have made me feel normal. Mum says it’s a miracle.
“Now I smile every day because life is fun.”
 

Jak is raising awareness of his condition, as well as thanking the hospital. The youngster, who took part in a charity version of Strictly in his hometown just two years after his operation , said: “I want the world to understand more about epilepsy and not to be scared because we can’t help it. I want to smash &pound;100,000 – wouldn’t that be epic?”
Jak was diagnosed with intractable epilepsy aged three and had seizures up to 30 times a day.
The family’s last hope to give him freedom from seizures was a brain op at GOSH in 2012 and it changed his life.
Julie said: “We would like to thank everyone who has supported us – we have already made a phenomenal difference.
“Together, we can bring a sparkle of hope to so many children and for us, that last hope was life-changing.”
The family raised &pound;500 by bag packing at a local Iceland store on National Epilepsy Awareness Day last month.
 

And they are holding their second Sparkle for Hope ball at Easterbrook Hall, Dumfries, in August.

To sponsor the event or offer prizes, call 01387 249015. To donate to the fund, text JAKM70 &pound;(your amount) to 70070.
Try our news quiz below

 
