A SELF-proclaimed prophet is being held on suspicion of murdering his pregnant Scots wife in a hotel room in Ghana.
The body of Charmain Adusah, 41, was discovered by staff face down in a bath where it is believed she had been lying for four days.
Her husband, Eric Isaiah Adusah, was alleged to have left the Mac-Dic Royal Plaza Hotel in Koforidua on the on the day Charmain died.
A family friend claimed Mr Adusah, 28, flew back to London but later returned to the African country after his wife’s body was found by concerned hotel staff who used a spare key to check on her after she failed to answer the door.
Her childhood friend Christine Stephen, 42, of Camberley, Surrey said Charmaine's parents in Arbroath, Angus were told about her death on March 21, a day after the grim discovery.

She told the Mail on Sunday: “I spoke to Charmain’s family and they said Eric had been in touch on that Saturday to say she had died.
“He said he was flying back to Ghana to identify her body on Sunday.
“He also told them he had returned to England because he had a three-day church event he had to attend here.
“But he was vague about the details of what happened, saying she had wanted to remain out there to help underprivileged children.
“Charmain’s family couldn't get hold of him after that Saturday, presumably because he had been arrested back in Ghana.”
 

The couple got married in London last September after a whirlwind romance.
But Mrs Stephen said none of her friends took to Adusah.
She said: “We thought he tried to cut her off from us, that he had brain-washed her.
“What person declares himself a prophet?
“Charmain was religious but she wasn’t a pastor.’”
His wife, whose maiden name was Speirs, already had an eight-year-old son from a previous relationship in Wales.
It is understood he has yet to be told the tragic news.
Mr Adusah is the leader of Global Light Revival Ministries church based in Tottenham, north London and has been active as a preacher in Britain since 2010.
 

He has led sermons he describes as “divine visitation” events across the UK and Ireland, receiving &pound;1million in charitable donations in five years and giving sermons on religious satellite television channels.
Mrs Adusah – who was considered the ‘First Lady’ of her husband’s ministry – grew up in Arbroath and studied photojournalism at Swansea University.
She worked as a radiography assistant in the Welsh NHS and later separated from the father of her son.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

