ANDY Murray might be dominant on court but it’s Kim Sears who will wear the trousers in their marriage, according to a handwriting expert.
Graphologist Jan Harrison analysed the couple’s writing just days before their wedding in Dunblane on Saturday.
And the results gave a rare insight into the dynamics of the couple’s relationship.
Jan says the angular letters from artist Kim means she is likely to be even more competitive than tennis ace Andy.
And she says the ex Wimbledon champ’s rounded writing shows him as a proud but sometimes misunderstood person, who needs time alone.
Jan said: “I can’t help but notice that Andy’s writing is very rounded and Kim’s is more angular.
“So I can safely say that I know who will be wearing the trousers in this household.
“The loop on her capital K is a sign of toughness. She will be the most proactive, even the most competitive.
“The angles mean she really needs a challenge and if something is too easy, she will quickly lose interest and often try to find a more challenging way to do it.
 

“Kim’s signature also suggests she will have strong opinions and high principles which she sticks to.”
Andy’s writing – taken from the match notes he made during the Australian Open in January – shows a quiet side.
Jan said: “His writing is far more passive and yielding. He might find himself a bit misunderstood because he can sometimes send out mixed signals.
“The leftward slant is rather more dominant and this reveals a strong mother link meaning he is more inclined to keep his thoughts and feelings to himself.
 

 “Andy’s handwriting shows no big ego demands, or need to demand attention, although the large capitals at the beginning of his words do show that he does feels a certain pride in his  achievements. 
“I think their personality differences will work well with the less demanding Andy being content to let his wife take charge of a lot of things.”
That analysis seemed on the money yesterday when the tennis ace revealed he had left all the wedding planning to Kim – apart from the food.
He said: “I went along and did the food tasting and I also did the cake tasting as well.
“The music is something that we chat about together as well.”
