SCOTLAND'S police chief was under fire last night after force inspectors ripped apart his controversial stop-and-search tactics.
Sir Stephen House was forced to accept all 23 withering recommendations in a damning report by HM Inspectorate of Constabulary Scotland (HMICS).
House immediately faced calls to return to Parliament to face questions about the “fiasco”.
The report concluded there can be no confidence in stop-and-search data held by Police Scotland.
It called for a new statutory code of practice and for targets to be removed.
The report also found:
●There is no clear evidence that stop and search cuts crime.
●There are substantial variations in the use of the tactic across Scotland, including divisions where it has become “embedded practice”.
●Officers don’t have full guidance or a common view of what should be recorded as stop and search.
HMICS want to see a move from “consensual” searches to a system covered by legislation.
They also called for vastly improved data collection.
House has been under pressure for months over the policy.
He told MSPs in February that 20,000 pieces of data on stop and search were “lost” because someone pressed the wrong button.
And he admitted frontline officers feel under pressure to meet targets.
In addition, confusing statistics were released on how many children under 12 had been frisked following assurances that the practice had been ditched.
At first, police said there were 356 searches but later revised it down to 18.
The HMICS report revealed yesterday that the true figure is 83.
Scottish Lib Dem leader Willie Rennie said House should explain himself in front of MSPs on the justice committee. Rennie said: “I am tired of playing cat and mouse with Police Scotland bosses over the use of stop and search. It is high time we were given clear-cut answers.
“This withering independent report from HMICS shows that everything we were told about targets, data and guidelines has been proven to be wrong.
“The complete failure of the police on this issue is exemplified by the fiasco of the figures on consensual searching of children under 12.
“Even after reviewing and re-categorising these figures again and again, the statistics given by police bosses to Parliament and the Scottish Police Authority were completely inaccurate.”
 

Rennie called for a statement in Parliament from Justice Secretary Michael Matheson.
He added: “This is a guddle which lies squarely at the door of Stephen House. We will be asking the Justice Convener to recall him to committee.”
Scottish Labour justice spokesman Hugh Henry said: “The report is a damning indictment of how Police Scotland have handled their stop-and-search activities.
“The Chief Constable needs to explain to the justice committee why Police Scotland’s evidence is not consistent with this report.
“Today’s report throws doubt on the evidence given by senior officers. Rank-and-file officers believe stop-and-search targets exist and Police Scotland must urgently clarify why that is the case.
“It beggars belief that the independent inspector can say that it does not have confidence in the stop and search data currently held by Police Scotland.”

It is understood the justice committee will consider the demand at a meeting tomorrow.
House refused to comment on the damning findings yesterday.
Instead, Police Scotland put out a statement from Deputy Chief Constable Rose Fitzpatrick.
Fitzpatrick said: “We acknowledge and will implement in full the recommendations made by HMICS, many of which are entirely consistent with the proposals made by the Chief Constable in his report to the Cabinet Secretary.”
HM Inspector of Constabulary Derek Penman said his report should lead to “significant reductions” in consensual stop and search.
He added: “We have recommended a move towards legislative stop and search which, combined with improvements in recording practices, training, supervision and audit, should give communities across Scotland more confidence in the use of stop and search.
“Due to the lack of guidance and processes, we do not have confidence in the stop and search data currently held by Police Scotland.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

