
 archive-name: x-faq/speedups
 last-modified: 1993/4/15
 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 	how to maximize the performance of x -- monthly posting
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 	    compiled by art mulder (art@cs.ualberta.ca)
 
   more ram, faster cpu's, more disk space, faster ethernet...  these
   are the standard responses you hear when you ask how to improve the
   performance of your workstation.
 
   well, more hardware isn't always an option, and i wonder if more
   hardware is always even a necessity.
 
   this "faq" list is a collection of suggestions and ideas from different
   people on the net on how you can the best possible performance from x
   windows on your workstation, without purchasing more hardware.
 
   performance is a highly subjective issue.  the individual user must
   balance `speed' versus `features' in order to come to a personal
   decision.  therefore this document can be be expected to contain many
   subjective opinions in and amongst the objective facts.
 
   this document is specifically concerned with x.  there are of course
   many other factors that can affect the performance of a workstation.
   however, they are outside the scope of this document.
 
     [ people seriously interested in the whole area of system
     performance, might want to look at the o'reilly nutshell handbook
     "system performance tuning" by mike loukides.  i'm about 25% of the
     way through reading it, and it looks like a well-written
     comprehensive treatment of system performance.  i'm unaware of any
     other similar books.  --ed.]
 
 -----------------
 table of contents
 -----------------
   0. introduction & administrivia
   1. what about the "other x faq"?
   2. window managers
   3. the x server
        which server?
        locking the server into ram?
        starting your server
        fonts
        about the resources file
 !      define your display properly
   4. clients
        a better clock for x
        a better terminal emulator for x
        tuning your client
   5. miscellaneous suggestions
        pretty pictures
        a quicker mouse
        programming thoughts
        say what!?
   6. other sources of information
   7. author & notes
   
 ! = changed since last issue.
 * = new since last issue.
 
 -----------------------------
 introduction & administrivia
 -----------------------------
 
   this document is posted each month, on or around the 15th, to the
   usenet news groups comp.windows.x, news.answers, and comp.answers.
   if you are reading a copy of this faq which is more than a few
   months old (see the "last-modified" date above) you should probably
   locate the latest edition, since the information may be outdated.
 
   if you do not know how to get those newsgroups and/or your site does
   not receive them and/or this article has already expired, you can
   retrieve this faq from an archive site.
 
   there exist several usenet faq archive sites.  to find out more about
   them and how to access them, please see the "introduction to the
   news.answers newsgroup" posting in news.answers.
 
   the main faq archive is at rtfm.mit.edu [18.172.1.27].  this document
   can be found there in /pub/usenet/news.answers/x-faq/speedups.  if
   you do not have access to anonymous ftp, you can retrieve it by
   sending a mail message to mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu with the
   command "send usenet/news.answers/x-faq/speedups" in the message body.
 
 -----------------------------
 what about the "other x faq"?
 -----------------------------
 
   david b. lewis (faq%craft@uunet.uu.net) maintains the informative and
   well written "comp.windows.x frequently asked questions" document.
   its focus is on general x information, while this faq concentrates
   on performance.
 
   the comp.windows.x faq does address the issue of speed, but only with
   regards to the x server.  the gist of that topic seems to be:
 	"use x11r5, it is faster than r4".
   (please see the x faq for complete details).
 
 ---------------
 window managers
 ---------------
 
   there are a lot of window managers out there, with lots of different
   features and abilities.  the choice of which to use is by necessity a
   balancing act between performance and useful features.  at this
   point, most respondents have agreed upon "twm" as the best candidate
   for a speedy window manager. 
 
   a couple of generic tricks you can try to soup up your window manger,
   is turning off unnecessary things like "zooming" and "opaque move".
   also, if you lay out your windows in a tiled manner, you reduce the
   amount of cpu power spent in raising and lowering overlapping
   windows.                           joe english (joe@trystero.art.com)
 
   i've found that a good font for tiling is 7x13 (aka:
   -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--13-100-100-100-c-70-iso8859-1 ). it is
   the biggest font i know of that i can use on my sun (1152x900 screen)
   and still get two 80 column terminal windows side-by-side on the
   display with no overlap.  other font suggestions will be accepted.
 
 ------------
 the x server
 ------------
 
 which server?
 - - - - - - -
   make sure that your server is a proper match for your hardware.
   if you have a monochrome monitor, use a monochrome x11 server.
 
   on my monochrome sun, i haven't noticed much difference between
   the xsun (colour) server and xsunmono, however it was pointed out to
   me that xsunmono is about 800k smaller and therefore should contribute
   to less paging.  
          [ thanks to: jonny farringdon (j.farringdon@psychol.ucl.ac.uk),
                         michael salmon (michael.salmon@eos.ericsson.se) ]
 
   how your server was compiled can also make a difference.  jeff law
   (law@schirf.cs.utah.edu) advises us that on a sun system, x should be
   compiled with gcc (version 2.*) or with the unbundled sun compiler.
   you can expect to get "*very* large speedups in the server" by not
   using the bundled sunos compiler.  i assume that similar results
   would occur if you used one of the other high-quality commercial
   compilers on the market.
 
 locking the server into ram?
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   has anyone tried hacking the x server so that it is locked into ram and
   does not get paged?  eg: via a call to plock().  does this help
   performance at all?  i've had one inquiry on this topic, and a few
   pointers to the plock() function call, but no hard evidence from someone
   who's tried it.  i am not in a position to give it a try.  
 			  [thanks to: eric c claeys (ecc@eperm.att.com),
 				      danny backx (db@sunbim.be),
 				      juan d. martin (juando@cnm.us.es) ]
 starting your server
 - - - - - - - - - - -
   joe english (joe@trystero.art.com) :
     if you start up a lot of clients in your .xsession or whatever, sleep
     for a second or two after launching each one.  after i changed my
     .xclients script to do this, logging in actually took *less* time...
     we have a heavily loaded system without much core, though.
 
   this sounds crazy, but i have confirmed that it works!  
 
   warner losh (imp@solbourne.com) provided me with a good explanation of
   why this works, which i have summarized here:
 
     when you start up an x server it takes a huge amount of time to
     start accepting connections.  a lot of initialization is done by
     the server when it starts.  this process touches a large number of
     pages.  any other process running at the same time would fight the
     server for use of the cpu, and more importantly, memory.  if you
     put a sleep in there, you give the server a chance to get itself
     sorted out before the clients start up.
 
     similarly, there is also a lot of initialization whenever an x
     client program starts: toolkits registering widgets, resources
     being fetched, programs initializing state and "databases" and so
     forth.  all this activity is typically memory intensive.  once this
     initialization is done ("the process has reached a steady state"),
     the memory usage typically settles down to using only a few pages.
     by using sleeps to stagger the launching of your clients in your
     .xinitrc , you avoid them fighting each other for your
     workstation's limited resources
 
   this is most definitely a "your mileage may vary" situation, as there
   are so many variables to be considered: available ram, local swap
   space, load average, number of users on your system, which clients
   you are starting, etc.
 
   currently in my .xinitrc i have a situation like:
 	(sleep 1; exec xclock ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xbiff ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xterm ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xterm ) &
 
   i've experimented with:
 	(sleep 1; exec xclock ) &
 	(sleep 2; exec xbiff ) &
 	(sleep 3; exec xterm ) &
 	(sleep 4; exec xterm ) &
 
   i've even tried:
 	(sleep 2; exec start_x_clients_script ) &
   and then in start_x_clients_script i had:
 	(sleep 1; exec xclock ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xbiff ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xterm ) &
 	(sleep 1; exec xterm ) &
 
     [ the idea with this last one was to make sure that xinit had
     completely finished processing my .xinitrc, and had settled down
     into a "steady state" before the sleep expired and all my clients
     were launched. ]
 
   all of these yielded fairly comparable results, and so i just stuck with
   my current setup, for its simplicity.  you will probably have to
   experiment a bit to find a setup which suits you.
 
 fonts
 - - -
   loading fonts takes time and ram.  if you minimize the number of fonts
   your applications use, you'll get speed increases in load-up time.
 
   one simple strategy is to choose a small number of fonts (one small, one
   large, one roman, whatever suits you) and configure all your clients -- or
   at least all your heavily used clients -- to use only those few fonts.
   client programs should start up quicker if their font is already loaded
   into the server.  this will also conserve server resources, since fewer
   fonts will be loaded by the server.
 			      [ farrell mckay (fbm@ptcburp.ptcbu.oz.au),
 			        joe english (joe@trystero.art.com) ]
 
   eg: my main xterm font is 7x13, so i also have twm set up to use 7x13
   in all it's menus and icons etc.  twm's default font is 8x13.  since
   i don't normally use 8x13, i've eliminated one font from my server.
 
   oliver jones (oj@roadrunner.pictel.com):
     keep fonts local to the workstation, rather than loading them over nfs.
     if you will make extensive use of r5 scalable fonts, use a font server.
 
 about the resources file
 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 
     keep your .xresources / .xdefaults file small.  saves ram and saves
     on server startup time.          joe english (joe@trystero.art.com)
 
   one suggestion:
 
     in your .xdefaults (.xresources) file, try putting only the minimum
     number of resources that you want to have available to all of your
     applications.  for example:  *reversevideo: true
 
     then, separate your resources into individual client-specific
     resource files.  for example: $home/lib/app-defaults.  in your
     .login file set the environment variable xuserfilesearchpath:
 
 	setenv xuserfilesearchpath $home/lib/app-defaults/%n
 
     [ the "comp.windows.x frequently asked questions" faq contains
     an excellent explanation of how these environment variables work.
     --ed.]
 
     so, when xterm launches, it loads its resources from
     .../app-defaults/xterm.  xdvi finds them in .../app-defaults/xdvi,
     and so on and so forth.  note that not all clients follow the same
     xxxxx resource-file naming pattern.  you can check in your system
     app-defaults directory (often: /usr/x11r5/lib/x11/app-defaults/) to
     find the proper name, and then name your personal resource files
     with the same name.
 
     this is all documented in the xt specification (pg 125 & 666).
 		    [thanks to: kevin samborn (samborn@mtkgc.com),
 		         michael urban (urban@cobra.jpl.nasa.gov),
 		             and mike long (mikel@ee.cornell.edu).
 	     kevin is willing mail his setup files to inquirers.]
 
   this method of organizing your personal resources has the following
   benefits:
 
     - easier to maintain / more usable.
 
     - fewer resources are stored in the x server in the resource_manager
       property.  as a side benefit your server may start fractionally
       quicker, since it doesn`t have to load all your resources.
 
     - applications only process their own resources, never have to sort 
       through all of your resources to find the ones that affect them.
 
   it also has drawbacks:
 
     - the application that you are interested in has to load an
       additional file every time it starts up.  this doesn't seem to
       make that much of a performance difference, and you might
       consider this a huge boon to usability.  if you are modifying an
       application's resource database, you just need to re-run the
       application without having to "xrdb" again.
 
     - xrdb will by default run your .xdefaults file through cpp.  when
       your resources are split out into multiple resource files and
       then loaded by the individual client programs, they will not.
       watch out for this!!
 
       i had c style comments in my .xdefaults file, which cpp stripped
       out.  when i switched to this method of distributed resource
       files i spent several frustrating days trying to figure out why
       my clients were not finding their resources.  xt did *not*
       provide any error message when it encountered the c style
       comments in the resource files, it simply, silently, aborted
       processing the resource file.
 
       the loss of preprocessing (which can be very handy, e.g. ``#ifdef
       color'' ...) is enough to cause some people to dismiss this
       method of resource management.
 
     - you may also run into some clients which break the rules.  for
       example, neither emacs (18.58.3) nor xvt (1.0) will find their
       resources if they are anywhere other than in .xdefaults.
 
     - when starting up a client on a machine that does not share files
       with the machine where your resources are stored, your client
       will not find its resources.  loading all your resources into the
       server will guarantee that all of your clients will always find
       their resources.            casey leedom (casey@gauss.llnl.gov)
 
   a possible compromise suggestion that i have (and am planning on trying)
   is to put resources for all my heavily used clients (eg: xterm) into my
   .xdefaults file, and to use the "separate resources files" method for
   clients that i seldom use.
 
 define your display properly
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 
   client programs are often executed on the same machine as the server.  in
   that situation, rather than setting your display environment variable to 
   "<hostname>:0.0", where <hostname> is the name of your workstation, you
   should set your display variable to "unix:0.0" or ":0.0".  by doing this
   you access optimized routines that know that the server is on the same
   machine and use a shared memory method of transferring requests.
 			[thanks to patrick j horgan (pjh70@ras.amdahl.com)]
 
   see the _display names_ section of the x(1) man page for further
   explanation of how to properly set your display name.
 
   "i don't think it's stock mit, but (at least) data general and hp have
   libraries that are smart enough to use local communication even when
   the display isn't set specially."
 			      rob sartin (88opensi!sartin@uunet.uu.net)
 
   [jody goldberg (jody@algorithmics.com) sent me an xlib patch to change
   stock r5 to use local communication even if display is not properly set.
   i don't want to get in the business of distributing or trying to juggle
   non-mit patches and so have elected not to include it here.  hopefully mit
   will apply this minor (~8 lines) patch themselves.  in the meantime, if
   you want to try it yourself, email jody.  --ed.]
 
 -------
 clients
 -------
 
   if you only have a few megabytes of ram then you should think
   carefully about the number of programs you are running.  think also
   about the _kind_ of programs you are running.  for example:  is there
   a smaller clock program than xclock?
 
   unfortunately, i haven't really noticed that programs advertise how large
   they are, so the onus is on us to do the research and spread the word.
 
   [ suggestions on better alternatives to the some of the standard clients
   (eg: xclock, xterm, xbiff) are welcome.  --ed.]
 
   i've received some contradictory advice from people, on the subject
   of x client programs.  some advocate the use of programs that are
   strictly xlib based, since xt, xaw and other toolkits are rather
   large.  others warn us that other applications which you are using
   may have already loaded up one or more of these shared libraries.  in
   this case, using a non-xt (for example) client program may actually
   _increase_ the amount of ram consumed.
 
   the upshot of all this seems to be: don't mix toolkits.  that is, try
   and use just athena clients, or just xview clients (or just motif
   clients, etc).  if you use more than one, then you're dragging in
   more than one toolkit library.
 
   know your environment, and think carefully about which client
   programs would work best together in that environment.
 
 		  [thanks to: rob sartin (88opensi!sartin@uunet.uu.net),
       duncan sinclair (sinclair@dcs.gla.ac.uk | sinclair@uk.ac.gla.dcs) ]
 
 a better clock for x
 - - - - - - - - - - -
 
 1) xcuckoo
    suggested by: duncan sinclair (sinclair@dcs.gla.ac.uk)
    available: on export.lcs.mit.edu
 
    xcuckoo displays a clock in the title bar of *another* program.
    saves screen real estate.
 
 2) mclock
    suggested by: der mouse (mouse@lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu)
    available: larry.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (132.206.1.1) in /x/mclock.shar
 
    non xt-based.  extensively configurable.  it can be made to look
    very much like mit oclock, or mostly like xclock purely by changing
    resources.
 
   of course, the ultimate clock --- one that consumes no resources, and 
   takes up no screen real estate --- is the one that hangs on your wall.
   :-) 
 
 a better terminal emulator for x
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 
   from the readme file distributed with xterm:
 
   +-----
   |		 abandon all hope, ye who enter here
   |
   | this is undoubtedly the most ugly program in the distribution.
   | ...
   +-----
 
   ugly maybe, but at my site it's still the most used.  i suspect that
   xterm is one of the most used clients at many, if not most sites.
   laziness?  isn't there a better terminal emulator available?  see below.
 
   if you must use xterm, you can try reducing the number of savelines
   to reduce memory usage.  [ oliver jones (oj@roadrunner.pictel.com),
 		   jonny farringdon (j.farringdon@psychol.ucl.ac.uk) ]
 
 1) xvt
    suggested by: richard hesketh (rlh2@ukc.ac.uk) :
    available: export.lcs.mit.edu in /contrib/xvt-1.0.tar.z
 
    "...if you don't need all the esoteric features of xterm, then get
    hold of xvt ...  it was written here just to save swap space as
    xterm is rather a hog! "
 
    this was written as a partial 'clone' of xterm.  you don't have to
    rename your resources, as xvt pretends to be xterm.  in it's current
    version, you cannot bind keys as you can in xterm.  i've heard that
    there are versions of xvt with this feature, but i've not found any
    yet.
 
    update (march 1993):  i recently had a few email conversations with
    brian warkentin (brian.warkentine@eng.sun.com) regarding xvt.  he
    questions whether xvt really is at all faster than xterm.  for
    instance, xvt may initialize slightly faster, but compare scrolling
    speed (try this quickie benchmark: /bin/time dd if=/etc/termcap
    bs=40) and see which program can scroll faster.  also, while xterm
    may be slightly larger in ram requirements (we don't have any hard
    numbers here, does anyone else?) shared libraries and shared text
    segments mean that xterm's paging requirements are not that major.
 
    as an experiment, he ripped out all the tek stuff from xterm, but it
    made little difference, since if you never use it, it never gets
    brought into memory.
 
    so here we stand with some conflicting reports on the validity of
    xvt over xterm.  in summary?  caveat emptor, your mileage may vary.
    if you can provide some hard data, i'd like to see it.
    specifically: how much ram each occupies, how much swap each needs,
    relative speed of each
 
 2) mterm
    suggested by: der mouse (mouse@lightning.mcrcim.mcgill.edu)
    available: larry.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (132.206.1.1) in
      /x/mterm.src/mterm.ball-o-wax.
 
    "i also have my own terminal emulator.  its major lack is
    scrollback, but some people like it anyway."
 
 
 tuning your client
 - - - - - - - - - -
 
   suggestions on how you can tune your client programs to work faster.
 
   from scott barman (scott@asd.com) comes a suggestion regarding motif
   text field widgets:
 
     i noticed that during data entry into motif text field widgets, i
     was getting a slight lag in response to some keystrokes,
     particularly the initial one in the field.  examining the what was
     going on with xscope i found it.  it seems that when the resource
     xmnblinkrate is non-zero and the focus is on a text field widget
     (or even just a text widget) the i-beam cursor will blink.
     every time the cursor appears or disappears in those widgets, the
     widget code is making a request to the server (copyarea).  the user
     can stop this by setting the resource xmnblinkrate to 0.  it is not
     noticeable on a 40mhz sparc, but it does make a little difference
     on a [slower system].
 
   this specific suggestion can probably be applied in general to lots
   of areas.  consider your heavily used clients, are there any minor
   embellishments that can be turned off and thereby save on server
   requests?
 
 -------------------------
 miscellaneous suggestions
 -------------------------
 
 pretty pictures
 - - - - - - - -
   don't use large bitmaps (gif's, etc) as root window backgrounds.
 
   - the more complicated your root window bitmap, the slower the server
     is at redrawing your screen when you reposition windows (or redraw, etc)
 
   - these take up ram, and cpu power.  i work on a sun sparc and i'm
     conscious of performance issues, i can't comprehend it when i see
     people with a 4mb sun 3/60 running xphoon as their root window.
 
     i'll let someone else figure out how much ram would be occupied by
     having a full screen root image on a colour workstation.
 
   - if you're anything like me, you need all the screen real estate
     that you can get for clients, and so rarely see the root window anyway.
 
 		      [ thanks to qiang alex zhao (azhao@cs.arizona.edu) 
 			for reminding me of this one. --ed.]
 
 a quicker mouse
 - - - - - - - -
   using xset, you can adjust how fast your pointer moves on the screen
   when you move your mouse.  i use "xset m 3 10" in my .xinitrc file,
   which lets me send my pointer across the screen with just a flick of
   the wrist.  see the xset man page for further ideas and information.
 
   hint: sometimes you may want to *slow down* your mouse tracking for
   fine work.  to cover my options, i have placed a number of different
   mouse setting commands into a menu in my window manager.  
 
   e.g. (for twm) :
       menu "mouse settings" {
         "mouse settings:"			f.title
 	"  very fast"				! "xset m 7 10 &"
 	"  normal (fast)"			! "xset m 3 10 &"
 	"  system default (un-accelerated)"	! "xset m default &"
 	"  glacial"				! "xset m 0 10 &"
       }
 
 programming thoughts
 - - - - - - - - - - -
   joe english (joe@trystero.art.com) :
     to speed up applications that you're developing, there are tons of
     things you can do.  some that stick out:
 
     - for motif programs, don't set xmfontlist resources for individual
       buttons, labels, lists, et. al.; use the defaultfontlist or
       labelfontlist or whatever resource of the highest-level manager
       widget.  again, stick to as few fonts as possible.
 
     - better yet, don't use motif at all.  it's an absolute pig.
 
     - don't create and destroy widgets on the fly.  try to reuse them.
       (this will avoid many problems with buggy toolkits, too.)
 
     - use a line width of 0 in gcs.  on some servers this makes a huge
       difference.
 
     - compress and collapse multiple expose events.  this can make the
       difference between a fast application and a completely unusable
       one.
 
   francois staes (frans@kiwi.uia.ac.be) :
     just a small remark: i once heard that using a better malloc
     function would greatly increase performance of xt based
     applications since they use malloc heavily. they suggested trying
     out the gnuy malloc, but i didn't find the time yet. i did some
     tests on small programs just doing malloc and free, and the
     differences were indeed very noticeable ( somewhat 5 times faster)
 
   [ any confirmation on this from anyone?  --ed.]
 
   andre' beck (andre_beck@irs.inf.tu-dresden.de) :
 
   - unnecessary noexpose events.
 
     most people use xcopyarea/xcopyplane as fastest blit routines, but
     they forget to reset graphics_exposures in the gc used for the
     blits. this will cause a noexpose event every blit, that, in most
     cases, only puts load onto the connection and forces the client to
     run through it's event-loop again and again.
 
   - thousands of xchangegc requests.
 
     this "gfx context switching" is also seen in most handcoded x-apps,
     where only one or few gcs are created and then heavily changed
     again and again.  xt uses a definitely better mechanism, by caching
     and sharing a lot of gcs with all needed parameters. this will
     remove the load of subsequent xchangegc requests from the
     connection (by moving it toward the client startup phase).
 
 say what!?
 - - - - - - 
   some contributors proposed ideas that seem right off the wall at first:
 
   david b. lewis (by day: dbl@osf.org, by night: david%craft@uunet.uu.net) :
     how about this: swap displays with someone else. run all your programs
     on the other machine and display locally; the other user runs off your
     machine onto the other display. goal: reduce context switches in the
     same operation between client and server.
 
   i'm not in a situation where i can easily try this, but i have received
   the following confirmation...
 
   michael salmon (michael.salmon@eos.ericsson.se):
     i regularly run programs on other machines and i notice a big
     difference. i try to run on a machine where i will reduce net usage
     and usually with nice to reduce the impact of my intrusion. this
     helps a lot on my poor little ss1+ with only 16 mb, it was
     essential when i only had 8 mb.
 
   casey leedom (casey@gauss.llnl.gov) :
     [the x11 server and the client are] competing for the same cpu as
     your server when you run it on the same machine.  not really a
     major problem, except that the x11 client and the server are in
     absolute synchronicity and are context thrashing.
 
   timothy h panton (thp@westhawk.uucp) :
     firstly it relies on the fact that most cpu's are mostly idle, x's
     cpu usage is bursty.  so the chances of you and your teammate
     doing something cpu-intensive at the same time is small. if they
     are not then you get twice the cpu+memory available for your
     action.
 
     the second factor is that context switches are expensive, using 2
     cpu's halves them, you pay a price due to the overhead of going
     over the network, but this is offset in most cases by the improved
     buffering of a network (typically 20k vs 4k for a pipe), allowing
     even fewer context switches.
 
 ----------------------------
 other sources of information
 ----------------------------
 
   volume 8 in o'reilly's x window system series, ``x window system
   administrator's guide'' is a book all x administrator's should read.
 
   adrian nye (adrian@ora.com):
     a lot more tips on performance are in the paper "improving x
     application performance" by chris d. peterson and sharon chang, in
     issue 3 of the x resource.
 
     an earlier version of this paper appeared in the xhibition 1992
     conference proceedings.
 
     this paper is absolutely essential reading for x programmers.
 
 --------------
 author & notes
 --------------
   this list is currently maintained by art mulder (art@cs.ualberta.ca)
 
   suggestions, corrections, or submission for inclusion in this list
   are gladly accepted.  layout suggestions and comments (spelling
   mistak's too! :-) are also welcome.
 
   currently i have listed all contributors of the various comments and
   suggestions.  if you do not want to be credited, please tell me.
 
   speedup-x-faq is copyright (c) 1993 by arthur e. mulder
 
   you may copy this document in whole or in part as long as you don't
   try to make money off it, or pretend that you wrote it.
 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 --
  ...art mulder ( art@cs.ualberta.ca )    | "do not be conformed to this world,
  department of computing science         |  but be transformed by the renewal
  university of alberta, edmonton, canada |  of your mind, ..."  romans 12:2
 