
 
 
  "steve" == steve frysinger of blue feather farm <spf@cbnewsl.cb.att.com> writes:
 
  steve> folks,
 
  steve> i'm looking for a public domain x-y plotting package for x.
  steve> i need basic capabilities (axes, labels, log and linear, &c).
  steve> it's hard to imagine that someone has not put such a thing
  steve> together, so i'm hoping to avoid reinventing the wheel.
 
  steve> thanks for any leads!
 
  steve> steve frysinger
 
 your might take a look a plplot.  version 4.99c (actually beta v5.0)
 can be found anonymous ftp from hagar.ph.utexas.edu, in the pub/plplot 
 directory.  
 
 --mark
 
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 | mark stucky                         | email:                               |
 | united technologies research center |     mark@ardnt1.res.utc.com          |
 | east hartford, ct.                  |or   mbs@rcinet.res.utc.com           |
 | 06108                               |or   mbs@utrc.res.utc.com             |
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
  from the readme file of version 4.99c:
 
  this is the plplot distribution.  plplot is a scientific plotting package for
  many systems, small (micro) and large (super) alike.  despite its small size
  and quickness, it has enough power to satisfy most users, including: standard
  x-y plots, semilog plots, log-log plots, contour plots, 3d plots, mesh plots,
  bar charts and pie charts.  multiple graphs (of the same or different sizes)
  may be placed on a single page with multiple lines in each graph.  different
  line styles, widths and colors are supported.  a virtually infinite number of
  distinct area fill patterns may be used.  there are almost 1000 characters in
  the extended character set.  this includes four different fonts, the greek
  alphabet and a host of mathematical, musical, and other symbols.  the fonts
  can be scaled to any size for various effects.  many different output device
  drivers are available (system dependent), including a portable metafile
  format and renderer.
 
  the plplot package is freely distributable, but not in the public domain.
  the plplot source code, except header files and those files explicitly
  granting permission, may not be used in a commercial software package without
  consent of the authors.  you are allowed and encouraged to include the plplot
  object library and header files in a commercial package provided that: (1) it
  is explicitly and prominently stated that the plplot library is freely
  available, and (2) the full copyrights on the plplot package be displayed
  somewhere in the documentation for the package.
 
  we welcome suggestions on how to improve this code, especially in the form of
  user-contributed enhancements or bug fixes.  if plplot is used in any
  published papers, please include an acknowledgment or citation of our work,
  which will help us to continue improving plplot.  also, please remember that
  as plplot is not a commercial product, we cannot be expected to offer the
  kind of support that a commercial product may.  there is great interest
  in extending plplot and fixing bugs, but the principal authors can only
  afford to work on it part time.  improvements will necessarily focus on
  those which help us get our work done.
 
  plplot is written in c, enabling it to run on many platforms practically
  without modification.  fortran programs may use it transparently; stub
  routines are provided to handle the c<->fortran interface without any
  modification of the user program.  c programs are required to include the
  header file "plplot.h"; see the documentation for more details.
 
  the main documentation for plplot is in the doc/ directory in the form of
  several tex files; please consult this for additional information ('latex
  plotdoc').  unfortunately documentation tends to lag actual improvements to
  the code, so don't be surprised if some known features are not explained
  there.  consult 'changes.log' to see a list of recent changes.  
 
  at present, plplot is known to work on the following systems:
 
 	 unix:	sunos
 		 a/ix 
 		 hp-ux
 		 unicos
 		 dg/ux
 		 ultrix
 		 sysv
 		 linux
 
 	 amiga/exec
 	 ms-dos
 	 os/2
 	 next
 
  for more information on how to get or use plplot on your system, see:
   - appendices to the plplot manual
   - system-specific documentation in the appropriate sys/<system> directory.
 
  to become a subscriber to the plplot mailing list, send a request to
  plplot-request@dino.ph.utexas.edu.
 
  credits
  -------
 
  plplot is the result of the effort of many people, so it is impractical to
  list all the contributors.   those currently supporting and otherwise
  responsible for the package in its present form include:
 
  maurice lebrun
  please send all comments, flames, patches, etc, to me.  i am responsible for
  all the plplot kernel development as well as most of the work on the
  metafile, xwindow, xterm, postscript, tektronix, and amiga drivers.
 
  email	mjl@fusion.ph.utexas.edu 
  usmail	dr. maurice lebrun
 	 institute for fusion studies
 	 university of texas
 	austin, tx  78712
 
 
 geoff furnish
 please send questions regarding the ms-dos and os/2 drivers to geoff.
 
 email	furnish@fusion.ph.utexas.edu
 usmail	geoff furnish
 	institute for fusion studies
 	university of texas
 	austin, tx  78712
 
 
 tony richardson
 creator of plplot 2.6b, 3.0
 please send questions regarding installation of plplot on the next to tony.
 
 email   amr@egr.duke.edu
 
 usmail  tony richardson              tony richardson
         184 electrical engineering   2920 chapel hill road apt. 41-d
         duke university              durham, nc 27707
         durham, nc 27706
         ph 919-684-5274              ph 919-493-1609
 