
 call for votes: creation of comp.windows.suit
 
 a request for discussion was posted on 26 mar 1993, and both charter
 and group name have been accepted.
 
 charter
 =======
 
 what is suit?
 -------------
 
 suit provides a standard library of screen components (buttons, menus,
 sliders, etc.), and allows interactive layout and specification of user
 interfaces.  the user interface to a suit program is editable even while
 the application runs.  programs using suit are written in ansi-c.  suit
 runs on unix/x, color macintosh, dos, and windows ; a single application
 source file may be recompiled to run on all platforms.
 
 suit was designed to be easy to learn - we view it as "the pascal of ui
 toolkits."  learning from a 10-page written tutorial, our undergraduates
 have been able to use suit productively after 2 hours.  this is possible
 because we rely more heavily on interactive tools than previous toolkits,
 and because the entire system as been designed to be easy to learn.
 
 suit's biggest advantages are:
 	- it runs across a very wide variety of hardware platforms
 	- it has a documented 2 hour learning curve for beginners
 	- it's very lightweight; relatively small amount of code
 
 suit has now been distributed to thousands of sites, and has reached
 all continents but antarctica. it has also been used in graduate
 courses at some universities, including stanford.
 
 the suit-users mailing list now has nearly 100 participants and has
 message traffic of 10-15 per day. some users have unsubcribed already,
 citing the volume of mail as the main reason. we feel that this
 justifies a newsgroup.
 
 details of the newsgroup
 ------------------------
 
 comp.windows.suit will be an unmoderated forum that will handle all
 aspects of suit, including:
 
 	- questions about suit
 	- bug reports
 	- distribution of contributory code
 	- announcement of new releases
 
 voting
 ------
 
 voting will begin when this cfv is posted, and will end on may 14, 1993
 at 23:59 est. in order for the group to be created, there must be a 2/3
 majority of yes votes to no votes, and there must be 100 more yes votes
 than no votes.
 
 to vote yes, please send mail to:
 	suit-yes@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu
 
 to vote no, please send mail to:
 	suit-no@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu
 
 all votes will receive an acknowledgement. if there is a problem,
 please do not send mail to either of these addresses; send them to
 the one below.
 
 the subject field must be unambiguous; for example, "i vote for/against
 comp.windows.suit" conditional votes, which may receive an acknowledgement
 initially, will be rejected. no anonymous votes will be accepted.
 if you wish to change your vote, mail a new vote; only the most recent
 vote by a user will be counted.
 
 if you have problems, questions, or comments, please mail them to:
 	suit-admin@uvacs.cs.virginia.edu
 where we will attempt to respond as quickly as possible.
 
 over this period, two additional cfvs will be posted, along with
 an acknowledgement of valid votes.
 
 thanks,
 
 the suit newsgroup team
 