
 in <ellis.735675321@nova> ellis@nova.gmi.edu (r. stewart ellis) writes:
 >>is there anyway to use x windows over an async line?  clearly you could use
 >                                x
 >it is x window.
 
 no, it isn't.  it is the "x window system", or "x11", or "x" or any of
 a number of other designations accepted by the x consortium.  in fact,
 doing "man x" on pretty much any x11 machine will tell you:
 
      the x consortium requests that the following names  be  used
      when referring to this software:
 
                                   x
                            x window system
                              x version 11
                      x window system, version 11
                                  x11
 
 there is no such thing as "x windows" or "x window", despite the repeated
 misuse of the forms by the trade rags.  this probably tells you something
 about how much to trust the trade rags -- if they can't even get the name
 of the window system right, why should one trust anything else they have 
 to say?
 
 with regard to dialup x11 implementations, there are several.  you can
 buy serial x11 terminals from a couple of companies, including both 
 graphon and ncd.  (in fact, i'm composing this from an ncd running x11
 over serial lines across 14.4 kbaud connection.)  
 
 ncd also sells a software-only package that provides xremote (which is
 ncd's implementation of serial x11) for pc's.  there may be other such 
 software packages available.
 
 x11r6 is supposed to include a standardized compression scheme for running
 x11 over low-speed connections.  it's called low bandwidth x (lbx), and 
 is based on improved versions of the techniques used in ncd's xremote. 
 
 it seems likely that once lbx is released as a consortium standard, there
 will be several vendors willing to supply implementations for various 
 sorts of hardware.
 
 followups directed to comp.windows.x
 --
  matt landau			waiting for a flash of enlightenment
  matt@centerline.com			  in all this blood and thunder
 