
 *reminder*   plan now for the andrew conference.
 *date* the dates are as noted below.  (we have not changed them.)
 *submission extension*   we are still accepting papers.
 
 *tutorial topic*  
 	_converting andrew source code to c++_
 
 this tutorial will discuss the steps necessary to convert a site from c
 (extended with classc) to c++.  conversion of the source code requires
 only a couple of steps:
 	run the converter
 	fill in missing type information
 describing this will not take long.  the remainder of the day will be
 spent learning how to write objects in c++ and practicing.
 
 ------------------------------
 
 1993 andrew technical conference and consortium annual meeting
 june 24-25, 1993
 carnegie mellon university
 pittsburgh, pa
 
 the conference will be held on the last thursday and friday in june.  a
 tutorial will be on thursday the 24th and the conference proper on the
 25th with the annual meeting at the dinner on the evening between the
 two days.  all conference attendees are welcome at the annual meeting,
 though only consortium members will be able to vote.
 
 this year's theme is 
 
 	application construction by non-programmers
 
 much of the effort on x toolkits has been aimed at programmer
 construction of applications.  there have, however, been some excellent
 uims systems built on top of x.  papers addressing the theme will
 consider questions such as
 	what is needed for application construction by non-programmers?
 	can we avoid programming altogether, or is a simple language needed?
 	is it sufficient to create applications, or must users be able to
 create new widgets?
 	should widgets and applications be able to print themselves?
 
 your participation in the conference is welcome.  papers are appropriate
 on the theme or any aspect of the andrew user interface system, including
 
 	applications
 	experience with users
 	new objects
 	reviews of and proposals for revision of 
 		internal andrew protocols
 
 we expect to have an rs/6000 with video projector available if you would
 like to do a demonstration.  
 
 paper proposals should be submitted by 15 may 1993.
 acceptance will be 1 june with final papers due by 15 june.
 
 send papers via electronic mail to wjh+@andrew.cmu.edu.
 
 fred hansen
 director, andrew consortium
 