
                           the andrew consortium
           of the school of computer science at carnegie mellon 
                          is pleased to announce
 
                           auis 5.1.1 for aix3.2
                                  4/26/93
 
 the andrew user interface system version 5.1 (our cdrom version) was
 developed for aix  version 3.1 on the ibm rs/6000 and many other
 platforms.  to accomodate aix version 3.2, we have created a patch to
 the sources.  the patch and accompanying instructions for its
 application can be retrieved at no charge via anonymous-ftp from the
 internet host emsworth.andrew.cmu.edu (128.2.45.40) in the directory
 ./aixpatch.  for those without internet access, a 3.5" diskette can be
 ordered for $10 by sending, or faxing, a purchase order to the address
 below. 
 
 the base 5.1 system can be ordered from us as a cdrom or ftp'ed from the
 same host.
 
 note that this patch adds no additional functionality but simply allows
 auis to compile under aix3.2.
 
 -----------
 
 the andrew user interface system (auis) is a comprehensive environment
 on top of x11 windows in which you can create, use, and mail multi-media
 applications and documents.   a major advantage of auis is the
 capability to recursively embed objects.  thus, one can edit text that
 not only contains multiple fonts, indentation, and other typography, but
 also  contains embedded raster images, spreadsheets, drawing editors,
 equations, simple animations, and so on. these embedded objects can
 themselves contain other objects, including text.
 
 auis has three components:
 
     the andrew user environment is an integrated and extensible set
     of applications beginning with the ez text editor, a help
     system, a system monitoring tool, an editor-based shell
     interface, and other editors corresponding to the various
     available types of objects. 
 
     the andrew toolkit (atk) is a portable, object-oriented
     user-interface toolkit that provides the architecture wherein
     objects can be embedded in one-another.  with the toolkit,
     programmers can create new objects that can be embedded as
     easily as those that come with the system. 
 
     the andrew message system (ams) provides a multi-media interface
     to mail and bulletin-boards.  ams supports several mail
     management strategies and implements many advanced  features
     including authentication, return receipts, automatic sorting of
     mail, vote collection and tabulation, enclosures, audit trails
     of related messages, and subscription management. it also
     provides a variety of interfaces that support ttys and
     low-function personal computers in addition to high-function
     workstations. 
 
 the current public release of andrew, version 5.1,  includes support for
 the new internet mime (multipurpose internet mail extensions) standards
 for multipart, multimedia mail.  a newer release, 5.2, for members of
 the andrew consortium has numerous additional features including new
 editors for drawings, images, fonts, and user preferences.
 
 
 remote andrew demo service
 
 you can try out andrew from your own work station via the remote andrew
 demo service.  you need a host machine on the internet running the x11
 window system.  you'll be able to compose multimedia documents, navigate
 through the interactive andrew tour, and use the andrew message system
 to browse through a few of cmu's four thousand bulletin boards and
 newsgroups.
 
 to get started with the remote andrew demo service, simply run the
 following command on your machine:
 
 	finger help@atk.itc.cmu.edu
 
 the service will give you further instructions.   
 
 
 more information about andrew is available from:
 
     information requests
     andrew consortium
     carnegie mellon university
     smith hall 106
     5000 forbes avenue
     pittsburgh, pa 15213-3890
     usa
     phone: +1-412-268-6710
     fax: +1-412-682-6938
     info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu
 
 contact info-andrew-request@andrew.cmu.edu for additional information.  
 
 