
 
               evolution of sco newsgroups and mailing lists
               ---------------------------------------------
    
    many readers enjoyed the opportunity to obtain and contribute useful
    information on sco open desktop since 1990 through the ancestral usenet
    newsgroup sco.opendesktop or it's companion mailing list.  similarly,
    there was a demonstrated need for an information and discussion forum
    for sco products in general.
    
    with the increasing demand for accessibility and for additional sco
    newsgroups, many current contributors including those who have been
    active in circulating sco related newsgroups and mailing lists felt
    that the readership would be best served by creating a biz.sco.*
    hierarchy to improve propagation (and hence availability) worldwide.
 
    biz.sco.{opendesktop,general,announce} were newgrouped may 1, 1991 in
    accordance with accepted procedure within "biz".  given the content,
    this change relocated the "opendesktop" newsgroup to a more proper place
    within the established usenet news hierarchy and adds the new "announce"
    and "general" groups.  on aug 1, 1991, the former "sco-list@uunet.uu.net"
    became "scogen" in keeping with established biz.sco.* naming conventions.
 
    biz.sco.binaries and biz.sco.sources were newgrouped on june 1, 1992
    to respectively accommodate sco xenix, unix and opendesktop specific
    binaries and source code.  the binaries and sources news groups are
    moderated, with moderator and submissions information and policy
    outlined in the periodic imformational postings in those newsgroups.
    respecting usenet etiquite, these newsgroups are _not_ gated to
    mailing lists, but are archived on several nuucp and ftp hosts.
 
    biz.sco.magazine was newgrouped dec 14, 1992, to provide a discussion
    area for the readers, writers and publishers of sco magazine.
    
    subject to the usenet news hierarchies carried by your upstream feed,
    you are now able to subscribe to the following:
    
         newsgroup                    mailing list subscription
         ---------                    -------------------------
         biz.sco.opendesktop          scoodt-request@xenitec.on.ca
         biz.sco.general              scogen-request@xenitec.on.ca
         biz.sco.announce             scoann-request@xenitec.on.ca
 	biz.sco.sources			<none>
 	biz.sco.binaries		<none>
 	biz.sco.magazine	     scomag-request@xenitec.on.ca
 
    you are _strongly_ encouraged to obtain these newsgroups via usenet
    news mechanisms vrs mail.  anyone having difficulty arranging a news
    feed for these newsgroups is welcome to email the undersigned and
    i'll do my best to help.  we also offer all required software in
    source code form via anonymous ftp and uucp, as do many archive sites.
    if, after having explored all options, you are still unable to receive
    biz.sco.* as news, you may subscribe to the mailing lists.
    
    the 4 discussion newsgroups are bi-directionally gated to companion
    mailing lists, so anyone not having access to news but who does have a
    uucp or internet mail feed can still participate fully using email.
    mailing list subscribers should send their request to the appropriate
    "mailing list subscription" address above, including in the message body:
 
 	add: subscriber_address		-eg-
 	add: your_logname@site.do.main  -or-
 	add: up!stream!yoursite!your_logname
 
    inclusion of an alternative working bang-path relative to a well know
    major functional site might prove beneficial.  deletions are handled
    the same way, simply substitute "delete:" for "add:", ensuring that
    you use the exact same address you subscribed with.  mailing list
    subscribers receive "how to post to the mlist" article submission
    information when their request is processed.  if you don't receive
    an acknowledgement within a few days, check your routing and try a test
    message via xenitec.on.ca back to your host.  in such cases, it's likely
    that someone, somewhere, is bouncing mail replies to you (and would do
    the same with mailing list traffic), and you'll want to resolve your
    connectivity problem before trying to subscribe again.  mailing list
    subscriptions are free, subject to whatever arrangements you may have
    with the site(s) feeding you.
    
    should you receive no response or experience a sudden and prolonged
    drop to zero volume on one of the mailing lists, this indicates that we
    are no longer able to find a working route to your site.  we loose a
    handful of subscribers this way each month.  if this happens to you,
    please email us your known working bang-path relative to a major site.
 
    what's in the newsgroups (and mailing_lists where applicable):
    
    biz.sco.opendesktop: technical questions and answers and informative
                         postings relating to past, present, and future
                         implementations of the sco opendesktop operating
                         environment and it's various bundled components.
    
    biz.sco.general:     questions, answers and comments on sco products
                         in general, and of course resulting discussions.
    
    biz.sco.announce:    sco and sco developer product announcements of
 			interest to current and future users of sco products,
 			and to sco developers, resellers and distributors.
                         (moderated, followups directed to biz.sco.general).
 
    biz.sco.sources:	sysv or bsd source code for useful programs and
 			utilities, modified to compile and run with various
 			incarnations of sco xenix, unix, and/or opendesktop.
 
    biz.sco.binaries:	binary packages compiled from sco compatible source
 			code, often from source posted in biz.sco.sources
 			and often installable using the sco "custom" utility.
 
    biz.sco.magazine:	interaction between the sco magazine readers, 
 			writers and publishers.
 
    you should always endeavour to post your article to the most applicable
    newsgroup.  for example, posting your odt question to the "general"
    newsgroup will preclude your question and answers to it from being
    saved in the public odt archives.  appropriate crossposting is allowed.
 
    the undersigned is solely responsible for administration of the biz.sco
    namespace.  suggestions for additional biz.sco.* newsgroups and/or
    mailing lists should be emailed to the address below.
 --
   ed. a. hew,    <edhew@xenitec.on.ca>    ....!uunet.ca!xenitec!eah
   xenitec consulting services, kitchener on, canada +1 519 570 9848
   trios training centres ltd. mississauga on canada +1 800-387-8649
           [biz.sco.* newsgroups and mailing lists godfather]
 