
 
 
 
 bristol technology announces the availability of 
 its hyperhelp(tm) and xprinter(tm) demo for downloading.
 
 this demo showcases the two products in the form of a 
 diagram editor called de.
 
 download the demo and see some of these exciting features for yourself:
 
 	 o complete on-line context sensitive help system.
 
 	 o printing support for pcl5 and postscript.
 
 	 o rotated text support!
 
 	 o source code for the demo is provided.
 
 the demo is available via anonymous ftp from ftp.uu.net (137.39.1.9).
 
 there are two versions of the demo located in the vendor/bristol directory:
 sun     - sun4.demo.tar.z (sunos 4.x)
 hp      - hp700.tar.z     (hp-ux 8 & 9)
 
 if you have any questions about the demo, send an
 e-mail to: support@bristol.com.
 
 if you want another version of the demo (rs6000,etc...) 
 please send an e-mail to: info@bristol.com.
 
 remember to use binary mode!
 
 
 what are hyperhelp and xprinter?  read on......
 ---------------------------------------------------------
 bristol technology is proud to announce version 3.0 of
 its popular hyperhelp product and version 2.0 of xprinter.
 
 			    hyperhelp 3.0
 			    -------------
 hyperhelp is the de-facto standard for on-line context
 sensitive help in the unix marketplace.  through a one
 line function call, application developers can access the
 full features of hyperhelp and cut down drastically on
 their development time.  hyperhelp can use the same rtf,
 project, and bitmap files as the ms windows help facility.
 this allows a documentation department to maintain a single
 set of help documents portable between ms windows, motif and
 open look.  hyperhelp can also be authored in framemaker. 
 and with hyperhelp 3.0 bristol introduces its sgml compiler!
 
 new features in hyperhelp 3.0 include secondary windows,a character
 based viewer, segmented bitmaps, sgml support, and an improved history
 window.
 
 			     xprinter 2.0
 			     ------------
 xprinter 2.0 allows developers to add sophisticated
 printer support to their existing/new x based applications
 very easily.  xprinter uses the xlib api for both the
 display and printer.  this lets you use the exact same code
 for drawing and printing.  take a look at the source code for
 our demo and see xprinter in action.
 
 if you are interested in adding postscript and pcl5 support
 to your application, xprinter is the tool for you!  earlier
 this year bristola dn usl signed an agreement that
 resulted in xprinter becoming the standard printing technology
 for unix svr4.2.
 
 
 feel free to run the demo and let us know what you think about
 hyperhelp and xprinter. 
 
 if you have any questions or comments, send them to us at:
 info@bristol.com or call us at (203) 438-6969.
 
 				happy demoing,
 
 
 
 					the staff at bristol technology
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      			    
 
 