A HOST of Scottish celebrities have lent their support to the ’s new campaign to Feed a Family for a Fiver.
Hollywood actor Brian Cox and singer Nina Nesbitt are among the stars now urging readers to help our fundraiser for food bank operators the Trussell Trust.
They’re joined by footballers Steven Whittaker and Steven Naismith, comedy legend Elaine C Smith and TV barman Gav Mitchell from Still Game.
By donating just &pound;5, we can feed a family of four for a day – and by the end of our campaign, we hope to have lifted thousands of Scots out of food poverty.
Craiglang favourite Gav said: “It’s an absolutely shameful disgrace that food banks exist in a first world country in this day and age.
“That people are reliant on them to survive and for them to become a norm in our society is unacceptable – especially in a world with so much waste.”
Dundee is home to Scotland’s largest food bank and X-Men star Brian – one of the city’s best-known sons – called for an end to austerity in a bid to alleviate food poverty.
He said: “I think it is disgraceful people have to rely on handouts to feed their families. It is a horrible reality and I would like to see it got rid of as soon as we can.
“It is great that charities like the Trussell Trust are doing the work, and thank God for them, but at the same time it is an iniquitous situation to have food banks.
“We shouldn’t have to have them but because we do, it is important that they are done with some sort of dignity and in a non-stigmatic way.
“I lend my support to this campaign because the use of food banks has got to an almost epidemic degree.

“It must never be the norm.
“From a humanitarian point of view I support the Record campaign – but in the future there should be proper care in the community so people don’t have to rely on handouts.
“The authorities must do more to give people back power to earn money and buy their own food.
“A fiver is not a lot to ask so I would ask everyone who can do so to help.”
Stay Out singer Nina said she was saddened to read that families in Scotland are relying  on food banks to survive in 2015. 
She added: “I’m very pleased to see the Trussell Trust, the Record and the people of Scotland are doing all they can to raise money and hopefully put an end to Scottish hunger eventually.”
Scotland and Everton striker Steven Naismith, who has worked with Denis Curran of the Loaves and Fishes charity in Glasgow providing food parcels and hot meals, said: “I find it incredible in this day and age that people are going hungry in Scotland.
“The stories Denis told me about young families having literally nothing are horrific.”
Ex-Ranger Naisy added: “Food banks do a fantastic job but they need the support of the public to continue with the work they are doing, which is why I am backing the  and Trussell Trust campaign.
“Authorities at local and national level must look at the issue and put sustainable measures in place to end poverty and hunger.”
Scotland defender Steven Whittaker, who plays for English Championship club Norwich, said: “It is a disgrace that food banks exist in 2015 but without them, many families would go hungry.

“I am not sure of the politics but one thing I am absolutely certain about is that drastic and immediate action is required to help the individuals who are suffering.”
The former Hibs and Rangers defender added: “I just can’t imagine how they feel having to go and ask for help just to put the very basic necessity of food on the table for the family. I would urge everyone out there who is able to do so to please make a donation to the Feed a Family for a Fiver campaign.”
Actress and comedienne Elaine praised the Trussell Trust volunteers whose selfless actions help stop Scots families going hungry.
She said: “It’s shameful that in one of the richest countries in Europe, men, women and children are having to rely on food banks.
“We are only as rich as the poorest among us – so we are all very poor indeed at this time in our history.
 “There has to be a better way but until then, we should be giving as much as we can to those who need it most. If all it means is a tin of beans as a donation, surely we  can all do that. I would plead with those who can to support the Feed a Family for a Fiver campaign.” 
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

