
 
                 australian pattern recognition society
 
                          2nd call for papers
 
                                dicta-93
 
                           2nd conference on -
 
          digital imaging computing: techniques and applications
 
 
 location: macquarie theatre
           macquarie university
           sydney
 
 date: 8-10 december 1993.
 
 
    dicta-93 is the second biennial national conference of the
 australian pattern recognition society.
 
    this event will provide an opportunity for any persons with an
 interest in computer vision, digital image processing/analysis and other
 aspects of pattern recognition to become informed about contemporary
 developments in the area, to exchange ideas, to establish contacts and
 to share details of their own work with others.
 
         the following invited speakers will provide specialised
 presentations:
 
 prof gabor t. herman, university of pennsylvania on medical imaging.
 
 prof. r.m. hodgson, massey university new zealand on computer vision.
 
 prof. dominique juelin, centre de morphologie mathematique, paris on
 mathematical morphology.
 
 prof. john richards, aust. defence force academy, canberra on remote
 sensing.
 
 dr. phillip k. robertson, csiro division of information technology,
 canberra on interactive visualisation.
 
 
    the conference will concentrate on (but is not limited to) the
 following areas of image processing:-
 
                 * computer vision and object recognition
                 * motion analysis
                 * morphology
                 * medical imaging
                 * fuzzy logic and neural networks
                 * image coding
                 * machine vision and robotics
                 * enhancement and restoration
                 * enhancement and restoration
                 * visualisation
                 * industrial applications
                 * software and hardware tools
 
    papers are sought for presentation at the conference and publication
 in the conference proceedings. submission for peer review should consist
 of an extended abstract of 750-1000 words of doubled spaced text, summarizing the
 technical aspects of the paper and any results that will be quoted.
 final papers should be limited to no more than 8 pages of text and
 illustrations in camera-ready form.
 
 
    four (4) copies of the abstract should be sent to:
 
 
                                dicta-93
                           c/- tony adriaansen
                   csiro - division of wool technology
                                 po box 7
                              ryde nsw 2112
                                australia
 
 
 
                             important dates
 
                 abstract due            - 25th june 1993
                 acceptance notified     - 27th august 1993
                 final paper due         - 15th october 1993
 
 
 
 social program:
 
 the conference dinner will be held on the thursday 9th of december 1993.
 other social activities are being arranged.
 
 situated on a beautiful harbour, sydney has many and varied places of
 interest. the opera house and harbour bridge are just two of the well
 known landmarks. harbour cruises, city tours to the blue mountains run
 daily. we can provide further information on request.
 
 
 accommodation:
 
 accommodation within 15 min walking distance is available, ranging from
 college style to 5 star hotel facilities. information will be supplied
 upon request.
 
 
 conference fees:
 
                         before 30th sep.        after 30th sep.
 aprs members              a$220                   a$250
 aprs student members      a$120                   a$150
 others                    a$250                   a$280
 
 conference dinner         a$35
 on dec 9th 1993
 
 
 -------------------------------------------------------------
                 advanced registration
 
 name:
 organisation:
 address
 
 phone:
 fax:
 email:
 
                 - i am a current member of aprs.
 
                 - i am not a current member of aprs.
 
                 - please send me information on accommodation.
 
 
 i enclose a cheque for
 
 -------------------------------------------------------------
 
 please send the above form to
 
 dicta-93
 c/- tony adriaansen
 csiro - division of wool technology
 po box 7
 ryde nsw 2112
 australia
 
 the cheques should be made payable to dicta-93.
 
 for further information contact:
 * tony adriaansen (02) 809 9495
 * athula ginigie  (02) 330 2393
 * email: dicta93@ee.uts.edu.au
 
 aprs is a member of iapp the international association for pattern
 recognition, inc. an affiliated member of the international federation
 for information processing.
 
 
 
 
 