
 
   visual numerics inc. (formerly imsl and precision visuals) is in the
 process of securing sites for beta testing x exponent graphics 1.0 
 and c exponent graphics 2.0.  (both x exponent graphics and c exponent
 graphics are 3gl products).  the beta period is from april 26 through 
 june 18.  the platform is hp9000/700 running under os 8.07 with 
 ansi c 8.71 compiler.  the media will be sent on 4mm dat cartridge 
 tape.  here are some of the key facts about the two products.
  
 x exponent graphics 1.0 key facts:
  
 1. complete collection of high-level 2d and 3d application plot types
    available through a large collection of x resources.
 2. cstom widget for osf/motif developers.
 3. built-in interactive gui for plot customization.
 4. easily-implemented callbacks for customized application feedback.
 5. xeg 1.0, being built on the xt toolkit provides the user a widget 
    library that conforms to the expected syntax and standards familar 
    to x programmers.
 6. xeg will also be sold as a bundle with visual edge's uim/x product.
    this will enable user to use a gui builder to create the graphical
    layout of an application.
  
 c exponent graphics 2.0 key facts:
  
 1. written in c for c application programmers/developers.  the library
    is 100% written in c, and the programming interface conforms to c
    standards, taking advantage fo the most desirable features of c.
 2. build-in gui for interactive plot customization.  through mouse 
    interaction, the user has complete interactive graph output control
    with over 200 graphics attributes for plot customization.
 3. large collection of high-level application functions for "two-call"
    graph creation.  a wide variety of 2d and 3d plot types are available
    with minimal programming effort.
 4. user ability to interrupt and control the x event.  by controlling
    the x event loop, when the user use the mouse to manipulate the  plot
    the user can allow ceg to control the event loop or the user can 
    control the event loop.
  
 if anyone is interested in beta testing either of the products, please
 contact wendy hou at visual numerics via email at hou@imsl.com or call
 713-279-1066.
  
  
 -- 
 jaclyn brandt
 jbrandt@neosoft.com
 --
 