
 merlin@neuro.usc.edu (merlin) writes:
 
 >could someone explain the difference between tom gaskins' two books:
 
 >  o  pexlib programming manual
 >  o  phigs programming manual
 
 >why would i want to buy one book vs the other book?  i have an 80386
 >running sco unix (x11r4) on my desktop, a sun iv/360 in my lab, and 
 >access to a variety of other systems (alliant fx/2800, cray y/mp) on
 >the network.  mostly, we would like to do 3d modeling/visualization
 >of rat, rabbit, monkey, and human brain structure.
 
 rather than decide which book you want to buy, you need to decide which
 programming interface you want to use, then buy the appropriate book.
 
 i wrote an article for the x resource which discusses the differences
 between phigs and pexlib (it will appear in issue 6 which should be out
 pretty soon).  but here's a brief summary...
 
 phigs is a graphics api which was designed to be portable to many
 devices.  most implementations support the x window system and take
 advantage of a 3d extension to x called "pex".  pexlib is a slightly
 "lower" level api which was designed to efficiently support the pex
 extension to x.
 
 some advantages of using pexlib...
 - integrates with xlib,xt,motif,etc. better than phigs
 - provides immediate mode capabilities
 - is free of "policy"
 - pex supports phigs, but is currently being extended to support
   features not found in phigs (like texture mapping, anti-aliasing).
   pexlib will give you access to all of these features.
 
 some advantages of using phigs...
 - support for multiple devices, not just x based ones
 - support for archiving, metafiles, hardcopy output
 - phigs has predefined input devices to make input easier
 - phigs can handle exposure events and resizing for you
 - phigs can help you with colormap selection/creation.
 
 if you're working strictly in x and don't care about things like
 archiving, i would go with pexlib.  either way, you will find that
 both api's have a lot in common.
 
 ralph mor
 mit x consortium
 
 
 