
 
 ----------------------   lightwave3d mail-list   ----------------------
 
 -- what is lightwave? --
 
 lightwave3d is part of a suite of programs that come bundled with a
 device called the "toaster" (from newtek, inc.) that operates on an
 amiga platform.  the lightwave software (lightwave=lightwave3d and
 lightwave modeler) allows and artist to create three dimensional
 photo-realistic images for a variety of purposes.
 
 -- why are we doing this? --
 
 this mailing list is for those interested in the lightwave software, how
 it operates and in ideas on how to obtain the best quality images
 available to them.  the list is for those who own the toaster and
 lightwave as well as those just interested in what can be done with the
 package.  we hope to share information, tips, procedures and to bond as
 a group.
 
 -- what are the rules? --
 
 since lightwave/modeler are just a part of the newtek video toaster
 software, i'm sure we will discuss a few items related to the operation
 of the toaster.  however, we will strive to keep the subject revolving
 specifically around the 3d software, related tools and products.
 
 you do not have to own a toaster to join this list!
 
 -- ok! how do i join? --
 
 to become a member of the lightwave3d mailing list you must send a mail
 message to the address:
 
         lightwave-request@bobsbox.rent.com
 
 in the body of the message enter:
 
 subscribe lightwave-l your.name@your.site.domain
 
 or just ask to be signed up and i will sign you up to the list.  at this
 point in time the process is manual but i hope to get an automated
 script based system in place soon.  there shouldn't be too much of a
 delay in joining.  expect a "welcome" message within 5 days after you
 send your request.  then, expect the mail to start flowing in!
 
 -- how do i post to the list? --
 
 contributing to the list is simple.  just mail your articles to the
 following address:
 
         lightwave@bobsbox.rent.com
 
 your article will be processed by the system and distributed to all
 others joined to the list.  your articles will also be sent to you so
 you know that your article has made it to the list.  however, those
 addresses that are either no good or no longer active will bounce back
 to you.  so, if you post an article and another members address is no
 longer valid, your original article will be returned to you.  this
 doesn't mean it hasn't been posted to the list.  in fact, just the
 opposite is true. it means that your article was posted and that it
 couldn't be sent to one or more of the members of the list due to a bad
 address.
 
 note: i hope to have a fix for this behavior soon.
 
 -- how do i quit the list? --
 
 simply mail a request to be removed from the list to the same address
 you used to sign up:
 
         lightwave-request@bobsbox.rent.com
 
 in the body of the message enter:
 
 unsubscribe lightwave-l your.name@your.site.domain
 
 i will remove your name from the list of members.  please, if you join
 the list and your account is going to be closed or if you will not be
 able to receive mail for a while, send a request to be removed from the
 list!  if you are just going to lose access for a short while still send
 a request for a suspension of your membership and i will suspend
 forwarding of the articles to you.
 
 
 -- what about old articles? --
 
 i am currently archiving all the articles posted to the list at the
 originating site (bobsbox).  however, i can not continue to do this due
 to lack of disk space.  what we need is a volunteer that will maintain a
 compendium of articles sent to the list.  they can compress and store
 them in archives on their system.  they can then periodically post an
 index of the contents of the compendium and any other information that
 relates.
 
 if there are no volunteers then maybe someone can donate a large scsi
 hard drive to me for archival purposes. <grin>
 
 i have setup a mail-based file server so that anyone interested in the
 list can obtain information as well as the entire archive of past
 articles, the membership listing and other information pertaining to
 the lightwave3d mailing list. for information on this service, please
 send a mail message to:
 
         fileserver@bobsbox.rent.com
 
 the first command to the server must be "help" or "user name <passwd>".
 
 use help to request a current copy of the helpfile.
 use user name [passwd] to connect to the service.
 use ?    to get a short listing of all available commands.
 
 
 
 -- now what do i do? --
 
 well, sit back and enjoy the pouring out of information.  if you have
 something to offer, please feel free to contribute that information to
 the list.  every little bit helps.  questions are welcomed!  it makes
 some of us feel important when we can answer them. <grin>
 
 if you have any questions or comments regarding the list, please contact
 me at the address:
 
         lightwave-admin@bobsbox.rent.com
 
 cheers,
 
 
 bob lindabury
 