
 
 more people have been asking for information on the kubota graphics
 workstations, so here is some more info on the kenai/denali vs. the
 e&s freedom.
 
 
 here is the text of a denali vs. e&s freedom done by d.h. brown associates.
 
 ------
 
 denali bears a strong resemblance to evans and sutherlands freedom graphics
 subsystem in several aspects of its high-level design.  both products use
 a parallel array of 29050 processors for geometric computations.  both
 have a pixel router to connect this front end to a second array of
 pixel processors.  as a result, denali and freedome overlap significantly
 in performance and functionality.  both design teams also appear to have 
 similar philosophies with respect to modularity, scalability, and market
 penetration.
 
 there remain, however, several important differences between the kpc and
 e&s products.  evans and sutherland designed freedom as a high-end
 developer's dream system with plenty of performance potential and
 flexibility.  in its favor, freedom has configurations from two to
 sixteen floating point units, a border range that starts and ends at
 a higher price and performance levels than denali.  all freedom
 systems include a large, fixed number of pixel processors that
 support a broader variety of color blending functions.  the freedom
 design treats its entire image memory as general-purpose memory, allowing
 developers to allocate it on a flexible basis to a number of special-purpose
 applications.  finally, e&s provided freedom with very flexible otput and
 video integration features for multimedia and simulation applications.  note
 that kpc is working an auxiliary board for ntsc and pal output that will not
 require an external video encoder.  e&s programmable output features,
 however, will remain much more flexible.
 
 the kpc design team, in contrast, made denali more of an end-user's system.
 entry version have better performance range and flexibility than low-end
 freedom configurations, and come in at more realistic mainstream price
 points.  denali does not need as many 29050 modules as freedome because
 it uses a deeper scan-conversion pipeline to support each one, resulting
 in better cost/performance characteristics.  although both products provide
 strong support for 3d, imaging, and volume rendering, kpc recognized that
 not all users will want an even mix of these capabilities.  denali's
 configuration flexibility allows customers in effect to purchase
 geometric and pixel processing capabilities separately, and to upgrade
 them separately as needed.
 
 both companies have implemented hardware texture mapping at
 workstation price levels as a way to attack sgi's more expensive
 vgxt and realityengine systems -- the only other products to provide
 this capability.  kpc supports point sampling and bilinear interpolation
 of textures in hardware, but provides only software support for the higher
 qualtiy tri-linear interpolated mipmapping method.  on balance, however, denali
 provideds bettern overall texturing capabilities than e&s for most applications.
 aside from being much more affordable, kpc solutions deliver more parallelism
 for texture processing and more off-screen memory for general graphics
 data storage.  by implementing texture mapping on its transformation
 modules, e&s foces customers to move very quickly to higher price levels
 to obtain better texturing performance.  kubota avoids this problem by linking
 texturing to its frame buffer modules, providing a lower-cost, more scalable
 solution.
 
 hope this helps,
 
 brian
 
 ps this was reprinted without permission.  for the full text, please contact
 kubota 408-727-8100.
 
 
 