
 
   a great many computer programmers read "dr. dobb's journal".  in a recent
 issue, there was a paragraph in an article that pained me greatly to read.  it
 said:
 
   "there's nothing wrong if microsoft setting the standards for the computer
 industry.  the industry needs an ibm for the 90's."
 
   where has the hacker ethic gone?  not the "cracker" ethic, which is something
 entirely different and bad, but the hacker ethic, which tells us to value the
 free distribution of information and yield to the hands-on imperative?  why is
 it that people and corporations like bill gates, ibm, and intel are able to
 have a virtual dead lock on the computer industry?  why is it that, if a person
 like myself posts messages to usenet on how to get into the little nooks,
 crannies, and idiosyncrasies of a computer system, they are not given any
 useful information by those who know, just a badmouthing? (or are completely
 ignored)  why is it that people like steve jobs have to abandon their efforts to
 make truly innovative products?  i ask those of you who call yourselves
 hackers, why is this?  and further, how can you let it go on?  it is a fact
 that the computer industry has changed the world, and shall continue to do so
 for a long time to come.  it has allowed the propagation of information in a
 volume unheard of even twenty years ago, and has made this world even smaller
 than it was before.  i shudder to think what that world will be like if the
 corporations are allowed to have their way, perpetuating more drivel like the
 286, windows, and the ibm product line on the computer-using public.  
 
   that is not to say i am against business per se; people who profit off of
 innovative, intelligent, creative designs do not bother me.  in fact, i applaud
 it; that is the american way.  but those who manage to sell kludgy, uncreative
 systems to the public, and profit off of them, are the ones who are the
 problem.  and, unfortunately, because they have enough money to make up for
 blunt stupidity, they can keep doing it for a very long time.
 
   i put it to you thus:  where has the hacker ethic gone?  if it still exists,
 where?  and, if it does exist, why are those who call themselves "hackers"
 allowing this to perpetuate itself?  why are they not creating new, innovative,
 interesting ideas to stop the sos from maintaining its choke hold on the
 computer industry?
 
   i await with interest what will probably be a resounding silence.
 
 +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 |  pstlb@acad3.alaska.edu     |  "revenge is a dish best served cold."       |
 |  "szechuan death"           |          - khan singh                        |
 |                             |            "star trek ii:  the wrath of khan"|
 +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
 