
 this is an invitation to send articles to the informatica magazine.
 the first fully international issue has been published and echoes 
 are quite favourable. for any information, contact (matjaz.gams@ijs.si). 
 
 dear colleague,                                        april 25, 1993
 
 number 1 of volume 17 of informatica is now out of print and some of you 
 will receive it in a week or so. as you will see, the journal is structured
 in the following way: the editorial (first page); profiles (second page
 -- biography of an editor, in this issue, terry winograd); the edited
 part of papers (pp. 3-80); mission and research reports (a plan for
 knowledge archives project in japan and csli in stanford, pp. 81-100);
 and news and announcements (pp. 101-108). this structure is mentioned to
 give you a suggestion how could you help to make the contents of the
 journal significant, diverse, and interesting, bringing your own views
 into the discourse.
    a great emphasis is given to the so-called editorial page. this page
 expresses an opinion (belief) of the writing editor to some problems
 within the scope of computing and informatics, extending into other
 concerning disciplines, e.g. cybernetics, advanced ai, cognitive sciences,
 mind, informationally concerned neural sciences, advanced technology 
 (e.g. photonics), etc. i asked professor terry winograd to write this
 page for number 2. i certainly would appreciate very much to get
 suggestions or possible offers from other editors, who like to express
 their strong (directed) beliefs concerning a future development of the
 area in question.
    on the second page of each number an editor's profile is published.
 the aim of the profile is twofold: to show his/her professional 
 achievements, interests, scientific, and philosophical orientation on
 one side; to narrate his/her life story in the environments in which
 editors has lived and live on the other side. this kind of story should
 be instructive, adequately factically faced, contributing to the 
 understanding of circumstances in which editors have to act and live.
    the edited part (edited papers) is still critical. i would like to have
 a stock of accepted papers in advance, so the issuing dates of a particular
 number can be fixed (e.g. january, april, july, and october). in situation
 right now, i ask you to help me with contributions of yours or your
 colleagues, collaborators, students, etc. some critical views to the
 contemporary development of computing and informatics are appreciated.
 a special emphasis should be given also to originality by which fresh
 ideas are coming into the circulation of different professional communities.
    reports of different occasions (symposia, conferences, meetings, etc.)
 and particularly on new books, papers, and interesting events are welcome.
 you can send these news immediately (also by your secretary) by e-mail.
 on the other hand, you can send books and other publications (annual
 reports, journals, calls for papers, etc.) for reviewing and publishing
 in informatica. we in the editorial staff will manage the rest.
    e-mail is functioning satisfactorily, so please use it in every respect.
 you can submit editorial notes, profiles, reports, news and even complete
 papers written in standard latex format (especially formulas). we received
 several final (corrected) texts in number 1 from different sites (us,
 russia, etc.). in this way, you can compose reports from already typed
 texts, using your own choice and editing, and submit them to the contact
 person (matjaz.gams@ijs.si), who is always being on your disposal. so,
 you will receive a prompt confirmation and any information concerning
 our common interest and job.
 
 at the end, please do not forget: we need your cooperation and help in
 every mentioned respect. the aim of informatica is to open various
 possibilities of communication concerning strong scientific and 
 philosophical orientations as well as those coming up, still unrevealed,
 and on the way to become significant. please, do not apprehend to give
 proposals, suggestions, and, certainly, contributions via the e-mail
 and by other means.
 
 sincerely yours,
 
 anton p. "zeleznikar
 editor-in-chief
 