AS Candace Skinner cuddled her newborn baby Cara, she was so excited and happy about being a mum.
But what should have been the happiest time of her life suddenly turned to heartache when, six months later, Candace was diagnosed with cancer at the age of just 22.
But the young mum has battled back to health and is now able to run around after her daughter. And she has signed up to take part in Cancer Research UK’s Race for Life in Glasgow on May 10 to raise funds for the charity.
Candace, now 23, lives in Glasgow with partner David Shaw, also 23, a sports coach, and 22-month-old Cara. When Cara was born in June 2013, the couple – who had dated since they were 16 – were over the moon.
Candace said: “She was very wanted. I was so cautious during the pregnancy to make sure she’d be healthy and happy.
“When she was born, she was just perfect. It couldn’t have been more brilliant. ”
When Candace found a lump on her neck five months later, she went to her GP, who referred her to hospital for a biopsy and scan.
She said: “I never thought for a moment it would be cancer. I thought maybe it was a cyst.”
So when Candace went back to hospital a month later for her results, she went alone, because she didn’t think it would be serious.
She wasn’t prepared to hear she had Hodgkin’s, a type of lymphoma.
She said: “It was a massive shock to be told I had cancer.
“I thought, ‘Why me? I’m only 22’. I didn’t know anyone my age who has been affected by cancer. Then I thought, ‘Am I going to die?’
“The consultant said it was treatable but I still worried about how it would affect me.
“I thought for the next six months my baby’s life was going to be overshadowed by my treatment and I would not be able to do as much as a normal mum.”
Candace took a taxi home from hospital and broke the news to David and they hugged in tears.
She said: “The worst thing was phoning my mum. She is a nurse but she couldn’t speak.
“Obviously, I was pleased it was treatable but I didn’t know how I’d cope with the treatment. I thought, ‘We’re going to face this head-on, get on with it and try to be positive’. You can’t think, ‘I’m going to die’, you have to be positive.
“I thought if I was miserable, it would affect Cara too. So for her sake and David’s, I had to be positive. I’ve been told the chances of it coming back are slim.
“David was really supportive. He would take over when I wasn’t feeling well and look after me and Cara. It was a lot for him on top of working and he was at university too. But he just got on with it. I felt guilty on treatment days when I wasn’t well. I was bed-bound and wasn’t able to take Cara for walks or even sit and watch her play. That was so tough.”
 

Through six months of chemotherapy, Candace lost her long, curly hair and switched to wearing wigs.
She said: “It’s not nice waking up in the morning and seeing yourself with no hair and looking washed out. But seeing Cara’s little smile kept me going.
“I told myself when I was better I’d encourage her to do things and make up for it. She was the reason I got up and got on with things when I had the energy.”
Candace was officially given the all-clear after a scan in September 2014 showed she was cancer-free.
She said: “It was great just knowing I didn’t need any more chemo. I could move on with my life a little bit.”
It meant Candace could celebrate Christmas properly. Then in March she could enjoy Mother’s Day and look to the future. She hopes one day to maybe have another child.
She said: “Cara’s such a bright character and everyone loves her. Now we get to do everything together.”
Candace has decided to take part in Cancer Research UK’s Race for Life in Glasgow on May 10 as a thank you for the work the charity does to fight the disease.
Candace said: “It’s a fantastic charity and I wanted to give something back to them, to help people like me be there for my daughter and able to do something like Race for Life.”
Every hour, around three people are diagnosed with cancer in Scotland and the number being diagnosed with cancer has now reached around 30,200 cases each year.
Lisa Adams, of Cancer Research UK in Scotland, said: “If you’re looking for an opportunity to get a little or a lot more active in 2015, this is the time to enter Race for Life.
“With fire in their bellies and trainers at the ready, we know that ladies across Scotland are up for the challenge. Race for Life events are non-competitive. Taking part is not about being fit or fast and participants can walk, jog, run or even dance around the course. “Race for Life celebrates everyone who is with us and honours those who have lost their lives to cancer. The atmosphere is electric and we’re calling on women across Scotland to help make 2015 our best year yet.”
Last year, almost 46,000 women took part in Race for Life in Scotland, raising &pound;2.9million. This year organisers want even more women and girls to stride out to beat cancer sooner with Scotland’s first Race for Life 5K of this year, in Glasgow on May 10, closely followed by events across the country, from Edinburgh to Dundee, Inverness to Irvine.
There are also Pretty Muddy events – a women-only, non-competitive 5k obstacle course, with mud.
 Money raised through Race for Life allows Cancer Research UK’s doctors, nurses and scientists to advance research which is helping to save the lives of men, women  and children across Scotland. 
• Cancer Research UK spends around &pound;34million a year in Scotland.
 To enter Race for Life, go to raceforlife.org or call 0300 123 0770. For more info on the charity go to www.cancerresearchuk.org and follow them on Twitter and Facebook. 
