THE lodger of a jeweller found murdered at his rural home has mysteriously vanished.
 Neighbours of victim Alan Gardner claim the man has not been seen since the 49-year-old’s body was discovered in Perthshire on Thursday afternoon. 
Locals said Alan’s car – a blue Toyota Rav4 – was seen in Perth with someone else driving.
Last night, police said they had found the car but refused to say where.
And they would not be drawn on the whereabouts of the mystery lodger, who is believed to be eastern European.
Officers confirmed dad-of-one Alan’s death in Balbeggie, near Scone airport, was being treated as suspicious.
Locals in the tiny village told yesterday how Alan’s &pound;110,000 home was locked from the outside and entry had to be forced. His body was discovered in his bedroom.
 One man, who did not want to be named, said Alan repaired jewellery in a workshop in his  back garden. 
He said: “Alan was a quiet guy who made and repaired jewellery and he had some pretty valuable stuff lying about. We heard he was found in bed and that the house was locked up from the outside.
“He kept himself to himself but did have a foreign man lodging with him. He was younger and was eastern European, possibly from Romania or Bulgaria.
“Alan stopped driving his Toyota because he developed epilepsy but it was seen in Perth with another driver at the wheel, which was a bit odd.”
Another local claimed Alan knew teacher Agnieska Szelfer, 27, who was killed in January at Bridge of Earn.
Originally from Airdrie, Alan moved to the house with his wife Jennifer about eight years ago. They had a daughter but they separated in 2013.
Neighbours said he “went off the rails a bit” after the split with his wife. One said: “It’s a real shame. He spent an awful lot of time on his own, with no one to talk to. It was starting to affect him.”
Yesterday, the entrance to Croft Park was cordoned off while forensic officers carried out a search of Alan’s property.
Last night, a police spokeswoman said: “We are appealing for information regarding the suspicious death of a 49-year-old man in Balbeggie, Perthshire.”
 Try today's quick quiz: 

