 NO one could watch the harrowing footage of Guardsman Shaun Smith’s savage attack on two young revellers without wincing . 
The 25-year-old soldier is seen chasing a terrified man through the streets before brutally stamping on his head 18 times.
The shape of Smith’s shoe was imprinted on his victim’s forehead.
The film lasts less than a minute but the barbarity of the beating is beyond shocking – it is sickening.
A police officer told the court it was the most violent piece of CCTV he had seen in 10 years on the job.
Probably the most remarkable aspect of the incident is how victim James Wormald escaped serious injury.
Yesterday, he told the Record he watched the clip for the first time and couldn’t believe he survived.
Our armed forces are held in the highest regard by the civilians of this country – and rightly so.
They sacrifice a stable family life for long tours of duty and risk their lives in battle, often for a meagre salary.
Sadly, from time you time you come across those who disgrace the military and undermine the traditions of their regiment.
Smith and accomplice Jason Collins are seen sprinting away from the crime scene, leaving their victims for dead. They later cowered in a river in a bid to avoid detection.
The fact that they walked free and may even keep their jobs has rocked James Wormald’s faith in the justice system.
There’s a place both of them should be – and that’s sharing a prison cell.
 Catch the coward 
 The death threat against Labour’s Anas Sarwar needs to be condemned in the strongest language. 
There is no place in Scotland for violent threats, or indeed the growing level of online abuse that passes for political dialogue.
Most politicians are thick-skinned and not easily cowed. But threats to someone’s safety are utterly unacceptable.
One of the dangers here is that non-politicians see the abuse levelled at people in politics and end up thinking twice before simply expressing an opinion. That’s bad for democracy, bad for free speech.
People should be able to have their say without fear of threats or online intimidation.
We hope police catch the coward behind the Sarwar death threat – and catch him soon.
 Evergreen love 
SOMETHING old, something new. It couldn’t be more apt for loved-up George Kirby, 103, and his bride-to-be Doreen, 91.
The besotted pair are set to marry, becoming the world’s oldest-ever newlyweds.
It is a story that can’t help but warm your heart and we wish them every happiness.

