CHARLIE FLYNN will be wide awake in the wee small hours to  watch Floyd Mayweather’s mega-fight with Manny Pacquiao in Las Vegas this weekend.
But the Scottish starlet will be dreaming of one day seeing his name in lights on the famous Sin City strip.
Flynn has been gripped with big-fight fever ahead of the clash of the century in the early hours of Sunday morning.
The mega-money contest has caught the attention of fans worldwide and it has only whetted the appetite of the Commonwealth champ as he takes his first steps on the pro ladder.
Flynn – who yesterday helped launch the 2015 Bank of Scotland Great Scottish Run – said: “America is definitely a dream of mine. That’s where the big fights happen and all the big boxers go.
“When I was wee I used to tell people, ‘I am going to be world champion and fight in Las Vegas.’
“I’ll watch the fight this weekend. I’m going to a pal’s house so thankfully I’m not paying for it!
 

“The fight could be a late one but I’ll just go straight to training afterwards.
“I’ll not bother going to bed as I’d be up for training anyway.”
Flynn can’t wait to watch the two best pound-for-pound fighters finally getting it on after five years of fall-outs.
Ringside tickets are exchanging hands for hundreds of thousands of dollars while the rest of the world will be stumping up for pay-per-view to watch it on their sofas.
Flynn is a student of the fight game. There’s not much gets past him when it comes to former champs or current stars and he reckons this mouth-watering clash has the makings of a classic.
He said: “It should be a great fight. I’d love to see Pacquiao winning but my head says Mayweather.
“Pacquiao is just so explosive, he throws so many punches. He might beat him just on work rate alone and throwing hundreds of punches.
“Mayweather is so great defensively so you never know. He is undefeated for a reason. It could come down to who boxes well on the night.
“It’s a great fight for boxing. It’s  absolutely massive and it has got everyone talking worldwide, not just boxing fans. It’s superb for the sport.”
Flynn will be a fan this weekend but he is strictly business when it comes to his own career.
Charlie Flynn in top form as he reveals how BALLET has got him fighting fit..

His life has been turned upside down since winning gold in Glasgow last summer but he has kept his feet on the floor after winning his first two bouts since turning pro at the end of last year.
Flynn scored a points win over Andy Harris in Newcastle last month and he is set to return to the ring at the Thistle Hotel in Glasgow on May 22.
The 21-year-old relishes the roar of the Scottish crowd but admitted he also loves hitting the road to build his fan base around the UK.
He said: “I can’t wait for May 22. I love fighting in Glasgow in front of Scottish crowds. I really enjoyed going down to Newcastle and fighting on the Anthony Joshua undercard. Going around the country is something that’s important to me.
“I know I have a good style that people like watching and it’s good to entertain fans all around Britain.
“I’m hoping to get on a big show in July – probably on the undercard of Scott Quigg’s WBA title fight – and that’s what it’s all about.
“You want to build up a following in the UK and beyond. If you are a boxing fan it doesn’t matter where you are from because you want to see good fighters in the ring.”
Flynn doesn’t need to work on his profile in his homeland. The star of Glasgow 2014 gets mobbed on the streets these days – that’s when he’s not pounding them.
The Wishaw youngster has signed up for the Great Scottish Run and although he racks up seven miles a day on the North Lanarkshire pavements he insisted no one should expect him to be among the frontrunners.
 

Flynn said: “I’m excited to take part in the Great Scottish Run. The  atmosphere was incredible at the start last year.
“I must admit I don’t really like team or group events. I like to work on my own. I was always like that when I was with the Scotland team. Even in the sprints, I didn’t like competing with the other fighters, even though I knew I would win.
“That’s why I love boxing, it’s one on one. I’ll kick about in the middle and keep my head down. I do seven miles a day but I just plod it. It’s not a fast run – it’s just to burn the fat and I find it quite relaxing.
“I do my fitness in the morning and get out on the road in the afternoon.
“However, I could do with a set of steps in Wishaw to run up Rocky style. It’s not quite the same running up in front of Lloyds in Motherwell!”
 * The Great Scottish Run – which features a half marathon, 10k and family events – takes place on October 3/4. For more info go to www.greatscottishrun.com. 
 * To purchase tickets for Flynn’s next fight at the Thistle Hotel on Friday May 22, go to www.themailman.biz . 
 
DON'T MISS OUR LIVE MAYWEATHER v PACQUIAO BLOG FROM 1.30AM ON SUNDAY
 
