Bra tycoon Michelle Mone has given her backing to the Conservative party ahead of next week's general election.Mone, from Glasgow, revealed she would vote Conservative on May 7 in a column for The Sun.The life-long Labour supporter said that the prospect of a Labour SNP Government should scare the living daylights out of voters and claimed Ed Miliband would be bullied by Nicola Sturgeon if he was Prime Minister.She said: &quot;I am genuinely concerned that we could end up sleepwalking to this outcome: Ed Miliband in Downing Street, being bullied about by Nicola Sturgeon.&quot;Ed Miliband is a nice guy but I just don't think he's real leadership material. And frankly, Nicola Sturgeon would run rings around him.&quot;Everyone thinking of voting in this election needs to realise that. Nicola Surgeon would totally rule the roost. Along with Alex Salmond, she would call all the shots.&quot;Why does that matter? Because together, Labour and the SNP would be a horror show for our economy. Their sums just don't add up.&quot;No doubt the SNP will attack me. They say that if you don't vote for them, you're not passionate about Scotland. Pure rubbish. I've got the Clyde running through my veins. I am so proud to be Scottish, proud to be British - and proud of how far we've all come together over the past five years.&quot;Mone, who founded Ultimo, said she was backing the Conservatives because they were what was best for business in the UK and praised David Cameron's Government's work on the economy following the recession.She said: &quot;Britain is heading in the right direction with David Cameron as PM - and frankly, the idea of a Labour-SNP government should scare the living daylights out of all of us.&quot;I remember what it was like in 2008, when the recession hit. People were genuinely scared. We had retailers cancelling orders at the last-minute, a sense of doom and gloom everywhere.&quot;But these days, the retailers I meet have smiles on their faces again. The high street's buzzing. People have more money to buy that car or treat the kids.&quot;And none of this just happened by magic. You've got to give credit where it's due to David Cameron.&quot;Speaking to Sky News, she added: &quot;Ed Miliband is a good leader but David Cameron is a PM and he's been the best Prime Minister since I've been born that we've ever had.&quot;I think the Conservatives are good for the UK and for business.&quot;Mone's comments came after a TNS poll predicted a landslide victory for the SNP in Scotland, with the party set to take 57 of the country's 59 seats.The poll showed support for the SNP at 54%, up 2%, while Labour were down 2% on 22%.The Conservatives were on 13%, the Liberal Democrats were on 6% and the Greens and Ukip were both on 2%.Mone had previously said she would not speak out in the general election campaign.She backed the pro-union campaign in the indyref and vowed to leave Scotland if the country voted for independence.