A GLASGOW researcher has found the oldest surviving non-biblical manuscript in Scotland.
The 12th century copy of the “Consolation of Philosophy” by Boethius, a statesman of the late Roman Empire, was Medieval Europe’s best-known intellectual text, second only to the Bible.
It discusses free-will, fate, the idea of the wheel of fortune in a meditation and how to cope with adversity and injustice. Boethius is thought to have written the original in 524AD when he was awaiting execution for a crime he didn’t commit.
Dr Kylie Murray made the discovery in the University of Glasgow’s Special Collections where she is visiting from Balliol College, Oxford.
The Boethius manuscript had ben catalogued but was believed to be English, putting Durham as the likely origin. But closer examination found the handwriting and illustrations didn’t match those in Durham or other English texts.
Dr Murray said the manuscript’s unique illustrations more closely resemble the famous Kelso Charter, written at Kelso Abbey in 1159.
 

She said: Dr Murray said: “Glasgow’s Boethius manuscript allows a fresh understanding of Scotland’s early responses to key intellectual works in the Middle Ages, and provides a snapshot of how Scotland’s literary culture as we now know it first began to emerge and develop.
“By showing us how alert and alive Scotland was to literary and intellectual influences from Europe at such an early date, the University of Glasgow’s Boethius manuscript is a hugely exciting find not only for scholars of medieval Scotland, but for anyone interested in understanding the roots of Scotland’s literary and intellectual culture.”
But the Boethius predates the charter by a generation, with King David I of Scotland forming a crucial link. A later reader added “David, by grace of god king of Scots”, a common practice at the time.
Identifying the text in Scotland means it was being read in Scotland 300 years earlier than previously thought. Dr Murray said this was proof that intellectual and literary cultures were flourishing in Scotland at a far earlier date than has been realised.
Jeremy Smith, Professor of English Philology and Head of the School of Critical Studies at the University of Glasgow, said: &quot;Dr Murray - one of the most exciting early-career researchers currently working in her field - is to be congratulated most warmly on this fantastic discovery, which opens up a whole new chapter in Scottish cultural history.
“The importance of Boethius's book for medieval and early modern studies cannot be overestimated. We are honoured that Dr Murray's tenure as Newlands fellow, attached to our school, has been marked in this way.”
 

