SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon has reiterated her opposition to Trident after a group of former defence chiefs warned it would be folly for the UK not to renew its nuclear weapons system.
The Trident missile system and its associated submarine fleet based on the Clyde are due for renewal by 2028.
A decision on whether to replace all four Vanguard-class submarines, which carry the missiles, is expected to be taken next year and the Labour and Conservative Party have made it clear they are prepared to spend &pound;100billion on upgrading the defence system.
However speaking at a business breakfast in Glasgow, Scotland's First Minister made it clear she regarded Trident as a &quot;status symbol&quot; of the British state and that she is implacably opposed to spending money on weapons of mass destruction.
Sturgeon, who joined CND when she was 16, said: &quot;I have opposed Trident and nuclear weapons generally for as long as I can remember.
 

&quot;I just think that weapons that at the press of a button can wipe out huge swathes of civilisation are wrong. And they are in my view morally wrong.&quot;
Instead of renewing its nuclear weapons system, she said the UK should focus on conventional defence forces, saying over the last 10 years or more these had been &quot;compromised by the obsession with the status symbol that is Trident&quot;.
Sturgeon added: &quot;Britain is an island, we're a maritime nation, yet since the Nimrods were decommissioned Britain does not possess a single maritime patrol aircraft.
&quot;Before Christmas, in December last year, there was a suspicion that Russian submarines were patrolling in our waters.
&quot;Britain had to call on America, Canada, France to come and check that out because we didn't have the aircraft to do it ourselves
&quot;That's a sign that nuclear weapons are not just morally wrong, it's the wrong priority in terms of properly defending the country.&quot;
She argued that a large group of SNP MPs at Westminster could &quot;force a rethink on the irrational proposal&quot; to renew Trident at a time when &quot;resources are so scarce&quot;.

 
She said: &quot;Let me make the view of the SNP crystal clear - if there is &pound;100 billion to spend, it should be invested in health, education and childcare, it should be invested in building a better future for our children, not on new nuclear weapons.&quot;
Sturgeon's comments came after 20 people, including former GCHQ director Sir David Omand and the former head of the Royal Navy Admiral Sir Jonathon Band, signed a letter sent to the Times newspaper outlining why they believe Trident must be renewed
The letter stated: &quot;In an uncertain world where some powers are now displaying a worrying faith in nuclear weapons as an instrument of policy and influence, it would be irresponsible folly to abandon Britain's own independent deterrent.&quot;

