A FIRE Service boss blasted by a sheriff over his role in a mum’s death has landed a plum promotion.
Lawyer Alison Hume, 44, died in agony after being trapped 45ft down a disused mine for almost eight hours in 2008.
Group commander Paul Stewart’s orders stopped firefighters going in to rescue her and she had a heart attack brought on by hypothermia six hours after they arrived at the scene in Galston, Ayrshire.
Stewart, 43 – then part of Strathclyde Fire and Rescue – was strongly criticised for his actions and for the standard of his evidence at an inquiry into Alison’s death.
Now he has been promoted to area manager and will be one of the chief officers at the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service’s &pound;4.6million training college in Cambuslang, near Glasgow.
Rank-and-file firefighters are livid at the appointment.
One experienced officer said: “Stewart has never really expressed any remorse for his actions – or lack of them – at Galston.
“He won’t get any support in his new job from many of the guys I know.”
Stewart’s promotion is also likely to enrage Alison’s family.
 

In June 2013, her step-father Hugh Cowan hit out after our sister paper the Sunday Mail revealed Stewart was being put in charge of fire safety at the Commonwealth Games.
He said at the time: “I am shocked and appalled that the fire service are even considering promoting this man. It is an absolute disgrace and the service should be ashamed.”
Mum-of-two Alison fell into the mineshaft on the night of July 26, 2008, while taking a short cut to her home nearby.
She was found by her daughter Jayne, then 19 – but although emergency services arrived at 2.15am, she was only freed at 7.42am when police mountain rescue experts arrived.
She suffered a heart attack while being brought to the surface and died.
 

Earlier, Stewart had stopped a paramedic being lowered down on ropes to tend to Alison, who had a collapsed lung, several broken ribs and a broken sternum but was still conscious.
Then he forbade any attempt by his colleagues to rescue her using the ropes.
The fatal accident inquiry at Kilmarnock Sheriff Court heard that at one point, firefighters put their safety harnesses on and were about to enter the shaft but were ordered to stand down by Stewart.
Sheriff Desmond J Leslie slammed Stewart for giving “bullish, if not arrogant,” evidence to the inquiry.
He said: “Mr Stewart considered the rescue operation was a success.
“Unfortunately, this was not a successful operation.Mrs Hume’s injuries were survivable – hypothermia materially diminished her chances of survival.
“The gradual onset of that condition was not recognised as a potential problem.
“There is little doubt the rank-and-file firefighters in attendance were anxious to conduct a rescue as quickly as possible but were prevented from doing so by their superiors.”

