Over the past few months I’ve been fairly immersed in the campaign bubble. Between near nightly election debates to weekends and evenings filled with canvassing and other campaign activities, we can sometimes lose our perspective of the world around us.
For me, this was brought into sharp focus in the last week, by the dreadful news of the earthquake which hit Nepal. As images of the city of Kathmandu were released on Saturday evening - iconic buildings in ruins and bodies being dug out of rubble by hand – it became immediately clear that the resulting destruction and loss of life would be devastating.
As I write this more than 5000 people have been found dead, and unfortunately this number is expected to rise as rescue efforts get underway in less accessible rural areas. Nepal’s rates of rural poverty are some of the highest in the world, and many of the villages across the Kathmandu Valley have limited disaster preparedness programmes and measures in place.
Coverage of the aftermath have shown scenes of utter grief from relatives of those who have been killed, as well as incredible feats of humanity – people surviving in the most difficult of circumstances, some having been trapped under the rubble for days.
For all that it’s difficult watching, it has been heart-warming to witness how quickly the international community has responded. Across the world, emergency appeals have been established and aid agencies mobilised to distribute much-needed supplies.
However, as food and clean water become scarcer and survivors are forced to sleep in the street, the Nepalese people need help in forthcoming weeks more than ever.
On Tuesday the First Minister Nicola Sturgeon pledged that the Scottish Government will provide &pound;250,000 to the Disasters Emergency Committee in Scotland’s Nepal Earthquake Appeal.
 The DEC is a vital collective of leading aid organisations including The British Red Cross, Oxfam, Islamic Relief and Tearfund which organises appeals and relief efforts at times of humanitarian crisis across the world. Please take a look at their website – www.dec.org.uk - and donate whatever you can. 
You can also phone 0370 60 60 900 or give &pound;5 by texting the word Nepal to 70000.
I used to be a fundraiser for an NGO, before I was elected as an MSP for Glasgow. During that time I found the people of Scotland to be endlessly generous – never once letting down those in need.
All funds raised will go towards delivering critical provisions such as shelter, food and water purification tablets to the people of Nepal, as well as treating the injured survivors.
Your donations will save lives, please give generously.
***
WITH a week to go until polling day there will be many voters who are still poring over leaflets about the candidates in their areas, watching debates on TV and attending local hustings, trying to make up their minds on how to vote.
Recent polls have been extremely encouraging for the SNP, but we take nothing for granted. It’s an old clich&eacute; of course, but the only poll that matters is on May 7.
With unprecedented levels of support for a Westminster election, we in the SNP are in unchartered territory and you will find not one ounce of complacency from us. We must continue to earn the trust of the people of Scotland.
This is the first time in my living memory that Scotland has the opportunity to make its voice heard at Westminister. I hope, one week from today, we seize that opportunity with both hands.
