DISTRIKT opened just four months ago but is already the must-visit destination for the discerning clubber who likes a late night venue with an intimate club feel.
Scottish fashion designer Christian MacLeod chose Distrikt to host his aftershow party, and with a number of private bookings arranged, along with the Miss Scotland after party this year, there’s loads going on at Distrikt.
The Merchant City has long been a vibrant location for bars and restaurants which was the main draw for Distrikt owners Paul Martin and Charles Connelly.
With a capacity of just under 300, the space works well as it’s just one main room with lots of booths and tables with hostess service, making it a more intimate experience.
Charles Connelly said: “We believe what makes us different is the club is about the experience of the night; from the red carpet entrance, the friendly and energetic staff, the intimate club layout and the wide variety of drinks available. He added &quot;We’ve 7 booths available and each booth is assigned a hostess to look after them. We have a head hostess and floor staff ensure people are given great service throughout the night.”
Housed within Merchant Square, the d&eacute;cor is raw in terms of the exposed walls and services visible overhead, while the comfy booths and bar bring a tidy upmarket finish.
With a red carpet entrance and twinkly lights where everyone stops for a selfie with their mates it turns into a catwalk of sorts.
Manager Stacey Williams said “We’ve had some funny CCTV footage over the last few months from this area!”

The music is varied to suit the nights. On Fridays, DJ Naeem who played at the Christian MacLeod aftershow plays cool laid-back R&amp;B with some house tunes thrown in to mix it up. Saturday Nights have been hosted by DJ Matt Howes, and DJ Mark McKinnon has joined playing sets packed with big house and party tunes. He knows how to work the room.
Whether your favourite tipple is Champagne, vodka or cocktails, premium brands are served as you like with Laurent Perrier Rose, Grey Goose and Crystal Skull Vodka, and King of Soho Gin. If you like your premium brands, this is where you’ll find them.
 
Distrikt
