A MALAWI-born entrepreneur who studied at two Glasgow universities has found huge success with the African nation’s first music streaming platform.
As we reported in February, Mvelani.com was the creation of Glasgow Caledonian University graduate Dumisani Kapanga, who works full time as a financial analyst.
But in just three months, he has secured multiple cross-country deals and more than 5000 music tracks for the streaming platform.
The site offers access to music from Lesotho, Swaziland, Burundi, Zambia, Congo, Malawi and Nigeria where Kapanga has recently secured contracts with COSON - the Nigerian Copyright authority.
“Mvelani”, which means listen in Malawi’s native tongue Chichewa, has forced Dumisani to invest in upgrading the site’s hosting capabilities and layout, with a mobile version now added and a mobile app being created.
He said: “The number of users have increased so fast that I quickly realised I needed to develop a platform that was scalable to ensure consistent service to all users.
“My main priority was to build a platform that was socially integrated, easy to use and speedy. As a large majority of our users are in countries where the bandwidth and internet are slow, I needed to create a lean platform to give them an advantage.”
Artists are now asking to be catalogued on the platform to find new audiences, he said.
Dumisani added: ““Thankfully I am now also now in a position that the site is able to invest in the local economies it’s working with. For example, this year Mvelani is forecast to pay over one million Malawian kwachas to artists making sure they are recognised for their support and talent.
“It’s been a really exciting few months for the website and it’s certainly moved much faster than I was expecting.
&quot;With the increase in demand from both users and artists I am now planning to add to the team to make sure it continues to provide the best possible service for those wishing to discover African music no matter where they’re from.”
