A MUM died after a fire ripped through her flat during the night.
Christine McDougall, 63, was found in her home in Airdrie, Lanarkshire, by firefighters on Wednesday.
They had raced to tragic Christine's semi-detached house to put out the blaze but discovered her lifeless body inside the property.
She was removed from the building shortly after 12.30am and fire crews provided her with emergency treatment but she died at the scene in the town's Mavisbank Street.
A joint investigation between Police Scotland and the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service's (SFRS) investigation unit is underway to establish how the blaze started but it is not believed to be suspicious.
Shocked neighbours told how the alarm was raised.
Ewelina Eleftheliuo, 35, said: &quot;I was woken by the sounds of the fire engines coming into the street.
&quot;I couldn't see any fire but there was smoke coming out of one of the windows in the back garden.
&quot;A little while later I saw the woman being taken out of the house by the ambulance staff.
&quot;I would see her regularly in the street and say hello. It is very tragic.&quot;
Another neighbour said: &quot;Christine had lived here for a long time and was a nice lady.
&quot;We heard some commotion but were stunned to wake up to discover she had died.
&quot;I know she had children and my heart goes out to them.&quot;
A SFRS spokesman said: &quot;Firefighters wearing breathing apparatus searched the house and removed the woman.
&quot;Our crews and paramedics provided emergency treatment at the scene but sadly she did not survive.
&quot;The fire was extinguished using a single high pressure jet and SFRS teams confirmed no-one remained unaccounted for.
&quot;Officers from the SFRS Fire Investigation Unit and Police Scotland will work to ascertain how the fire started.
&quot;The loss of life through fire is always a tragedy that impacts many people across a community and our thoughts are very much with the woman's family and friends.
&quot;While we cannot comment on the specific circumstances surrounding this incident, any death through fire must prompt us all to consider fire safety and take steps to reduce any risks to ourselves and those around us.&quot;
