THE distraught mother of murdered Karen Buckley was consoled by her family yesterday as her daughter’s coffin was carried from her funeral.
Marian, 61, wept while Karen’s father John had to be comforted by their sons Brendan, Kieran and Damien. The hearse was flanked by a guard of honour made up of Karen’s nursing friends from her student days at the University of Limerick.
The little church of St Michael the Archangel in Analeentha church in Mourneabbey, near Mallow, County Cork, was packed to capacity for Karen’s funeral mass.
A large marquee which had been put up in the church grounds to cater for those who could not get into the church was also full.
During the service, her cousin Siobhan Leahy read a moving poem to Karen, which said she had “A smile to lift a thousand frowns.”
Among the mourners were police officers from Scotland involved in her murder investigation.
Her three brothers brought items to the service that represented her personality, achievements and her love for life.
Brendan brought in a picture of Karen’s first day in Analeentha National School.
Most recently, Karen, 24, had been studying for her masters in occupational health therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University after graduating as a nurse last year – so Kieran brought her nursing uniform.
Her third brother Damien took Karen’s favourite dress that she wore to Brendan and his wife Niamh’s wedding.
Her friend Katie Twohig said: “Karen’s life revolved around family, friends and goodness.
“The best tribute we can pay to her is to imitate the virtues she put before us and find ways of being people who cherish family, friends and goodness.”

Karen went missing after a night out in Glasgow on April 12.
Her body was found at a farm north of the city four days later and Alexander Pacteau, 21, was arrested and charged with her murder.
Parish priest Father Joseph O’Keeffe told mourners: “Death is sad at any age but our feelings concerning death are not always of the same degree.
“To us, Karen was a young woman, a friend.
“To her family she was a cousin, a niece, a sister-in-law, a sister, a daughter, a child.
“It is most difficult, then, for them but in particular for Karen’s parents John and Marian to associate the cradle to the coffin.
“One represents the beginning of life and the other represents the end.
 

“And it is doubly sad when the two are so closely linked.
“We are deeply, deeply saddened when the life of someone so young is cut short and, in Karen’s case, so tragically and horrifically by the curtain of death.
“Karen’s death seems so utterly inappropriate. It violates our sense of order.
“In our view of life, death and childhood are poles apart, and 24 years simply does not seem the right time to die – it does not seem to add up. But my final word is the one, I feel, we most need to hear. It is faith.
“Within the scope of human reason, a tragedy such as this simply doesn’t make sense.
“Therefore we either despair or find our strength in faith.
“Others before us have faced this same tragedy and have opted in favour of faith.”

A poem called Karen was written and read out by her cousin Siobhan.
She said: “Small and gentle, honest and true, our sister Karen, how much we will miss you. These days gone by have only showed, the love for you that this world holds.
 “From green country fields, a small country school, to a national university, and international  studies too. 
“A nurse with plans, a woman full of dreams, an adventurer who travelled, and in fun and laughter revelled.
“A smile to lift a thousand frowns, brown eyes shining – big and round.
“A country girl – big hopes, big plans, big heart, big smile and caring hands.
“How great you loved, how much you cared, how much you gave, how much you shared.
“Sleep easy Karen, you’re now at rest, throughout your life you gave your best, how much we miss you, we can’t fully express.
“We love you Karen.”
 

As well as hymns by local church choirs, there was also a version of the Irish female group Celtic Woman’s song Goodnight, My Angel.
In a reference to the student’s love of travel Father O’Keeffe said: “Through travelling extensively Karen reached many a destination. Shortly, we will travel with her mortal remains on her last earthly journey.”
Karen was buried after the funeral mass in nearby Burnfort Cemetery, alongside her grandparents.
Around 300 people attended a vigil in Glasgow’s George Square earlier this month, including Karen’s parents.
On Monday, thousands of sympathisers gathered in Mallow, County Cork, to pay their respects to Karen’s family after her body was brought home to Ireland.

