
 well, although this may be an uncommon occurrence (or not) i had a "bad"
 experience with techworks.  this past summer i upgraded (increased) the memory in
 a powerbook and a ci.   when i called to place the order for the pb ram, i was
 told by the sales person that they would give me a $50 rebate if i would return
 the original ram (which was also techworks ram.)  i followed the instructions for
 returning the old ram, expecting to see a credit on my visa within a few weeks.
 
 well, months went by, and no credit.  after many calls (almost none of which were
 ever returned - arghhh) i finally found someone who told me "why we never
 received your old chips."  i then explained i the procedure that i had
 followed to return them, to which the person replied "you mean you sent them
 us mail?" (which i had, per the original sales person's instructions.)  i was
 told that they their loss of us mail shipments is not uncommon (come on) and that
 i should have sent the stuff via fedex, etc.  i reasoned that i had done exactly
 what i had been told to, but they would not budge, the people i spoke with were
 absolutely no help.  i sent letters, copies of the original receipts, attempted
 to trace the package through the us mail, made *many* more phone calls to
 techworks, all to no avail (i wouldn't give-up because i was so disgusted.)
 sales/support people, supervisors, there was nothing i could do to pursuade them
 to "make it right."
 
 i finally (in total disgust) wrote a letter to my credit card company, asking
 them to investigate the problem.   three weeks later, the credit miraculously
 appeared on my statement.  i have not (in recent memory) been so disgusted with
 the service that i received from a company.  in all fairness, they had no way of
 knowing that was not trying to rip them off, but i went to *such* great lengths
 to prove to them that this really happened.  oh well, c'est la vie.  i will never
 buy another product from them again.
 
 (there - had to get that off my chest!)
 