
 in article <1993apr1.054820.3942@siemens.co.at> kurt netzer,
 kurt@siemens.co.at writes:
 >is it possible to install a 2nd 3 1/2" 100 mb hd in a mac ii with a
 >5 1/4" 40 mb qunatum hd?
 >can i us a 50 pin cable with 3 connectors for the internal motherboard
 >scsi-connector and the 2 scsi-hd connectors. the first hd is'nt
 terminated
 >the second will be.
 >whats about the power supply. where can i connect a 3 1/2" amp-connector
 >to supply my 3 1/2" hd?
 
 it is very possible to connect another internal hard disk in any
 macintosh if you can find the space to put it. i have a iisi that came
 with a quantum 80 meg drive. when i ran into space problems, i slapped in
 another 40 meg quantum that i had sitting on a shelf. here is what i did.
  
 first off, i was concerned about space. since both drives are quantum
 quarter height drives, i finally decided that the logical place for them
 was stacked one upon the other. fine, they fit snugly. (i have not had a
 problem with heat yet, and these drives have been running together for
 over two months.
 
 the next problem was connecting the drive. if you have a spare internal
 hard disk power cable as i did, then half of your troubles are over. just
 splice in the extra cable so that you get one square motherboard
 connector and two hard disk power connectors. if you don't have a spare
 cable, you will have to buy the wires and connectors which can be found
 in any good electronics store for about $10. i would suggest properly
 soldering/heatshrinking the connections to reduce the possibility of
 shorts or bad connections.
 
 next, you need a ribbon cable connection. again, i had a spare hard disk
 ribbon cable, and i wanted to be careful in case this didn't word so what
 i did was purchase a crimp on 50 pin cable connector that gave me another
 male connector in the middle of my spare cable. the part cost $10 again,
 and is easily attached with any good wood vice. the theory behind using a
 crimp on connector is that if this doesn't work, my original cable is not
 damaged, and i can go back to the original setup.
 
 having done all that, i couldn't be bothered to check the dev notes for
 power consumption so i plugged it in and it works like a charm to this
 day. 
 
 in a mac ii, everything should work the same. be careful with the id's of
 the drive, and ensure that the terminating resistors on both drives are
 intact. i did not try this without the terminating resistors but it
 seemed logical that if i am splitting the scsi chain, that the signal
 should be terminated at all the ends.
 
 let me know if you have any more questions.
 
 peter hansen
 bell northern research
 pgmoffc@bnr.ca
 