
 i am having trouble with scsi on a mac iifx. the machine is 3 years old
 and i have been using the same hard drive (internal maxtor lxt-200s) for
 two and a half years. the disk recently crashed. i reformatted (silverlining
 5.42), but during the reformat i received random write errors during testing.
 the error message reported was like:
 
 sector 0: write error detected after testing good - sector not mapped out.
 
 this occurred randomly all over the hard disk (which makes me suspect the
 diagnostic's reference to sector 0 ??? ). on the third reformat and after
 reinstalling the scsi read/write loops i was able to get through passes
 2,3, and 4 with no errors. (pass 1 for some reason reported a lot of errors,
 but still mapped out no sectors.) i decided to go ahead and try to resinstall
 system 7 and reload my data from a backup. this proceded normally; however,
 i now have sub-optimal performance. symptoms include:
 
    o frequent crashes
    o instances of extremely sluggish disk access requiring a reboot to
        correct.
    o instances of not finding the disk on the scsi chain on reboot.
        - if i boot from norton utl. after this occurs, it cannot find the
          disk either.
        - the only thing that fixes this is recycling the power. it sometimes
          requires several attempts.
 
 questions:
 
    1) has anyone had this type of problem before?
    2) is the problem with the fx motherboard (and its non-standard
       scsi implementation) or with my maxtor disk? is there some
       diagnostic software that would help me make this determination?
    3) is it a termination problem? i currently have external syquest
       and an external dataframe xp60 on the chain. the xp60 is at the
       end, and has internal termination; so i am not using the iifx
       terminator. i do have the scsi filter installed on the internal
       drive. i have run with this exact steup for 2 1/2 years with
       one previous disk crash requiring a reformat (about a year ago).
       i also have symptoms if i disconnect the external devices;
       so i don't see how scsi termination would now be an issue. of
       course who knows :-<
 
 help would be much appreciated.
 
 forrest e. lumpkin iii
 nasa ames research center
 lumpkin@corvus.arc.nasa.gov
 