
 
 ------ x-posted to comp.sys.mac.hardware and misc.consumers -------
 
 you've heard about apple's great new customer "support" program.  well,
 think again.  sometimes the only real support out there is what apple
 computer users can give to each other.  for another example, read on:
 
 in the march 15th issue of _macweek_, ric ford described a two-year effort
 by liam breck to document and bring to apple's attention a problem with
 certain defective mice.  at random, the switches on these mice "stick" in
 the down position until clicked a second time, apparently regardless of the
 machine they are used with or the system software involved. most of the
 reported problem mice were manufactured in malaysia and have an fcc id of
 bcga65431. you'll recognize this "sticky button" symptom immediately if you
 have such a mouse: the problem is intermittent, but it's not subtle.
 
 liam breck recently gave up trying to document this problem, and instead 
 suggested that people contact apple's customer assistance center directly
 (_macweek_ 4/5/93 p. 64). when i called apple on march 23rd and described
 my defective mouse, i was eventually given a case number (f83y) and told
 apple would replace this mouse even though it is a few months out of
 warranty.  after waiting for three weeks, i called back today wondering
 where my new mouse was. this time, i was told that apple had decided the
 serial number on my mouse (mb13831fc25) is not within the (undisclosed)
 range apple is willing to replace, and there is nothing i can do about it.
 
 nothing, that is, unless enough people complain about this problem to make
 it worth apple's while to fix or replace the entire lot of defective mice.
 please, if you have one of these mice, i need your help! don't assume you
 know what causes the problem (there are _lots_ of theories) and start
 hacking around inside your hundred-dollar mouse. instead, let apple do it.
 please take five minutes to call apple right now at:
 
                   united states      1-800-776-2333
                   canada             800-665-2775
                   uk and europe      33-1-49-01-49-01
                   australia          61-2-452-8000
                   japan and pacific  81-3-5411-8500
 
 if the number isn't toll-free, call collect.  describe the problem and ask
 for a replacement mouse.  even if they refuse, insist that they register
 the details of your case, including your mouse's serial number.  be firm.
 
 network managers and user-group leaders especially, please query your user
 bases. everyone ask your friends and colleagues.  please don't send mail to
 me or post yet another "sticky-button" report, call apple directly!  if
 enough victims take the trouble to report this well-known problem, apple
 will eventually be forced to respond.  if apple continues to find it easy
 to stone-wall on this issue, don't expect them to offer support when the
 next, potentially more serious mac defect is uncovered.
 
 -- bill sloan
 