
 i've just installed a 5.25" tape backup in my c610; lot of the issues
 are the same.  so, to answer your questions...
 
 in article <1993apr16.141820.1@cstp.umkc.edu> kmoffatt@cstp.umkc.edu writes:
 
 > my pli 80m syquest drive has a wire from the
 > drive to an id# switch on the outside of the case.  where do i connect
 > this switch??  can the computer just "tell" with internal drives?
 
 you probably want to hard-wire the scsi id with shorting jumpers.  put
 it at a convenient number like "1".  you *could* cut a hole in the
 back of the machine to route the id switch, but why go through the
 hassle?  you probably won't be needing to frequently change the id of
 your internal drive.
 
 >	i noticed that the drive will lay over part of the motherboard (i
 >didn't look closely, but i seem to recall it laying over the ram that's
 >soldered onto the motherboard?  would that cause problems?
 
 yeah, when i first installed the tape drive i was a little concerned
 too.  but it's no problem, the device is designed to fit just fine
 with the overhang.  it shouldn't reach back beyond the rom/ram/vram
 simms, though.
 
 >	one last question!  is there anywhere to order a faceplate cover?  
 >the drive's front panel is smaller than the space left in the case (the
 >drive's panel is the same size as the spotsbm clone's cases).  should i just
 >cut a hole in the plastic panel that is currently holding tmpty place?
 
 you can special-order parts to mount the device from your local apple
 dealer.  the relevant parts are:
 
   922-0358  blank bezel faceplate
   922-0850  cd-rom carrier [i.e., generic 5.25" device mounting bracket]
 
 note apple's unfortunate choice of name for the slide-in bracket to
 mount a 5.25" device.  the service techs i talked to said, "oh sure,
 we stock those."  of course they were thinking of the cd caddies to
 hold a cd disk when you stick it in the drive.
 
 as far as i can tell, apple does not sell a bezel faceplate already
 cut out for a standard 5.25" device.  (why not?  they advertise
 these machines as being able to accept any standard device in the
 5.25" bay, why not provide the faceplate?)   they do sell a cutout for
 their cd-rom drive (of course), but that's of no use.
 
 i'm going to hack up the extra bezel i ordered to make a cutout for my
 tape drive, which is a standard 5.25" device.
 
 good luck with your syquest.
 
 	-fred
 
 
 