
 this is turning into a faq
 
 
 here is how to violate your quadra 700 warranty and install your own
 memory.
 
 1)  insert usual disclaimer here
  
 2)  remove the top lid of the machine. you will see the floppy disk and
     hard drive mounted in a plastic tower. follow the usual anti-static
     precautions and of course make sure the machine is off when you do
     this. unplug the wall and monitor power supply cords from the back
 	of the mac.
  
 3)  remove the power supply by pulling the plastic interlocking tab on the
     tower forward and simultaneously pulling the power supply straight up.
     the tab is a piece of plastic from the left posterior aspect of the
     tower which extends downward to hook on to the power supply. you may
     also feel a horseshoe shaped piece at the right portion of the power
     supply. leave that alone. the plastic tab from the tower is all you
     need release.
  
 4)  look at the rear of the tower assembly. you will see the flat ribbon
     scsi connector to the hard drive, a power cable and a flat ribbon cable
     leading to the floppy drive. disconnect all these from the motherboard.
     the hard drive power cable connector has a tab which must be squeezed
     to release it.
                                             
 5)  unplug the drive activity led from its clear plastic mount
 
 6)  look down the posterior, cylindrical section of the plastic tower. a
     phillips head screw is at the base. remove it, taking care not to drop
     it into the case. a bit of gummy glue on your screwdriver is helpful
     here.
 
 7)  remove the tower assembly by pulling medially the plastic tab on the
     right side of the tower. this tab prevents the tower from sliding
 	posteriorly. slide the entire tower assembly 1 cm posteriorly then
 	lift the tower assembly straight up and out of the case.
 
 8)  congratulations, you have now gained access to your machine's simm
     slots.
 
 9)  the six big slots are for vram. one usually must install all six to
     gain useful video modes. all simms (ram or vram)  installed with their
 	chips facing the front of the motherboard.
 	
     the four smaller sockets in front are for ram simms. install simms in
 	sets of four into these sockets. be sure you seat the simms squarely
 	and firmly into a fully upright position.
 	
 10) reinstall the tower assembly by first placing the right wall of the
     tower against the right wall of the case with the tower assembly about
 	1 cm posterior of its intended position. lower the tower assembly into
 	place while maintaining contact with the right wall of the case.
     once fully down, slide the tower assembly anteriorly until it clicks
     into place.
 	
 11) reconnect the motherboard ends of the cables. dont't forget the floppy
     drive cable.
 
 12) replace the phillips head screw
 
 13) drop the power supply straight down into place until it clicks in.
 
 14) plug the hard drive activity light back into its clear plastic mount
 
 guy kuo <guykuo@u.washington.edu>
 
 