
 here is the macweek article describing the duo ram situation.
 (w/o permission.  i hope that is ok)
 
 jose
 
 bad ram brings some duos down. (random access memory boards for apple
 macintosh powerbook duos) 
 macweek v7, n7 (feb 15, 1993):132.
 
 copyright coastal associates publishing l.p. 1993
 
 by raines cohen
 
      austin, texas - some third-party memory-expansion cards for powerbook
 duos depart from apple specs in ways that could cause crashes, data loss
 and other problems.
 
      technology works inc., a ram and network vendor based here, last week
 issued a warning about three problems it said it had found in duo ram
 products from some competing vendors, which it declined to identify.
 other vendors and an apple spokeswoman confirmed that the problems exist.
 
      > self-refresh.  the duos require a kind of dynamic ram called
 selfrefreshing, which can recharge itself while the system sleeps.  but
 technology works said some vendors have sold duo cards with
 nonselfrefreshing dram, which can cause the system to lose data or fail to
 wake from sleep.
 
      most leading memory manufacturers include the letter v in the part
 number stamped on their self-refreshing chips; nonself-refreshing chips
 instead have an l, according to techworks.  the chip label, however, may
 not tell the whole story.  newer technology of wichita, kan., said it uses
 nonself-refreshing chips but adds its own circuitry to keep them refreshed
 while the duo sleeps.
 
      > speed.  some ram-card vendors have put 80-nanosecond dram on duo
 cards rather than the 70-nanosecond type the 230 requires, technology
 works said.  however, some chips labeled as 80- or 85-nanosecond are
 certified by the manufacturer to run at a higher speed.
 
      kingston technology corp. of fountain valley, calif., said it offers
 duo ram cards with 80-nanosecond chips, but only for the duo 210, which is
 compatible with the slower chips.
 
      > space.  technology works charged and apple officials confirmed that
 some third-party cards are too large to fit properly, forcing the corner
 of the duo keyboard up and preventing the system from starting up normally
 when in a duo dock.
 
      lifetime memory products inc. of huntington beach, calif., said it
 originally shipped cards with this problem but has since offered all
 customers free upgrades to cards that fit.
 
 