
 i have tried almost everything under the sun to get a null modem connection
 between a mac duo 210 and a pc. i have used mackermit and versaterm on
 the mac side. i have used procomm, kermit, and softerm (on os/2) on
 the pc (or ps) side. i have used non-hardware handshaking and hardware
 ahdshaking cables. and know my hands are shaking from the effort. nothing
 has allowed file transfers from the mac to the ps.
 
 in general, i can type back and forth with no trouble, but only if both sides
 are set to speeds over 9600 baud. i cannot send files from the mac to the
 ps at all, and file transfers from the duo to the ps are not possible.
 when i do a straight ascii send, i can send from the ps to the duo flawlessly.
 i can send binhex files this way quite fast, and i know that the
 transmission is error free.
 but straight ascii sent from the mac to the ps is full of errors.
 unless, of course, i do text pacing so slow that it is like human
 typing. (well, like 2-3 times faster than human typing).
 
 i would like to hear from anyone who has been able to transfer files
 from a duo 210 to a ps via modem or null modem. if you can do it, please
 tell me your exact combination of hardware and software. obviously, i am
 talking of a true serial port modem, not the express modem. maybe some
 kind soul with access to a modem and a duo 210 can check this out for me.
 
 right now, i am of the opinion that it won't work at high speeds because
 of the power interrupts on the duo, and it won't work at low speeds
 because of some crazy reason i don't understand.
 
 could i hear from someone attesting that they can really pump information
 out the serial port of a duo 210 fast? like via a modem or via a
 sys-ex dump?
 
 could anyone with a duo help me out?? i am going absolutely insane.
 i wanna know if the problem is my duo, or all duo 210s, or all duos,
 or just me.
 
 yes, i have checked the cable 1,000,000 times. and not only can i type
 back and forth, but zterm alerts the users if s/he uses hardware handshaking
 and cts is down. so i know that hardware handshaking is working. and also,
 according to zterm port stats, the buffer never overflows.
 
 please help me figure out what's going on...
 
 scott petrack
 petrack@haifasc3.vnet.ibm.com
 
 