
 in article <mdavis.735319596@crash.cts.com> mdavis@crash.cts.com (morgan davis) writes:
 
 >last week's macweek article by ric ford indicated that david ramsey's
 >mac iix has been running nicely with a mac iici rom in it, offering
 >clean 32-bit rom code (liberating his iix from the virtual memory
 >nightmare caused by apple's 32-bit system enabler).
 
 [ this would make me a bit suspect of mr. ramsey's qualifications
 as a self-styled "expert", in fact, when i read about anybody
 using virtual memory regularly i kind of wonder ... ;-) ]
 
 yes, one can sometimes get away with running a newer rom (of the 
 correct size, obviously) in an older machine, but one should be 
 prepared for problems if running software that checks for machine 
 type rather than rom trap availability and then draws incorrect 
 conclusions when special-casing - especially timing-dependent
 and driver-related stuff.
 
 in this particular case i see no reason to go to the trouble 
 of rom-swapping.  the apple 32-bit enabler has problems, but
 mode32 works just fine with 7.0, 7.0.1, and 7.1.
 
 >does anyone know of a source for these roms?  
 
 sure.  buy a used iici motherboard.  call pre-owned electronics,
 shreve, or other parts dealers (see the back of computer shopper
 or one of the mac trades for phone numbers) and ask for a price
 on a iici rom.  everything has a price.  if you happen to find
 somebody who salvaged a iici with a dead motherboard, you might
 get a decent price.  there is probably a market for used mother-
 boards as well, so they might sell a rom anyway.
 
 >needless to say, i'm interested in purchasing such a rom.  what would
 >be a reasonably price to offer?
 
 ask for a quote and then try offering less?  pre-owned and
 shreve have been known to dicker.  their ads in various trade
 magazines often list considerably different prices for the 
 same items, and their phone quotes tend to vary as well.
 
 still, i'm not aware of any technical reason for upgrading 
 the rom in a iix.  
 -- 
 -- bill johnston (johnston@me.udel.edu)
 -- 38 chambers street; newark, de 19711; (302)368-1949
 