
 interesting delema for all those out there.
 my school is discussing installing a mac lab of 10 to 15 stations for our bio
 100 to 103 classes to do a study with pig disections.  (no joke)  here is the
 deal. we can get this grant to do a study on if it is more feasible to do a
 disection via the computer or via the real thing.  my problem is i was somehow
 drawn into this project (being done by students who want to go mac but know
 nada about them, being the man mac man on campus, guess who they came to?) so i
 wnt to know what would probably be the best hardware to fill the follwoing
 list?  right now we are looking at the c650 8/80 and the 2vx 5/80 platforms.
 ok here it goes:
 
 	we are using cd-rom, so ought we go with the internal apple cd-roms
 offered as options in the 650 and vx or go external. it is a matter of price
 and reliability, the second being very important.
 	how much ram?  i was thinking 5-8 more leaning towards 8?  what do you
 think?
 	ok, called apple educational discounts and they said their keyboard
 (extended) is 160.30. is it better to go with the apple and their long time
 great wear and tear record, or is there a 3rd party extended keyboard that is
 just a reliable?  price?
 	printers:  one color printer we are presently leaning towrds the
 thermal wax tektronic 200e or 200i (probably the e as we are going to limit
 access so we don't needed the i's networkability)  so, what do you think in
 terms of color printers?  different brand?  kind (dye sublimation?  ink jet?) 
 price? companies?  1800 #s?  also, we are looking to get a laser printer or
 such to network into the whole lab for noraml printing.  the fornt runner is
 the apple pro650 (is that right don't have my notes here?) at 1650. 
 suggestions?  we have kids using these things all day if this lab goes through
 and they know nothing about it for the most part. it has to be reliable, easy
 to maintain, and economical (ie, not high priced paper cartidges, etc).
 	finally, and this is my little dig into the project. what about netting
 these things?  we have ether nearby and i would like to slap the macs on the
 net, but, server?  individual ether?  forget about it it is going to be
 astronomically priced and the school is going to laugh at you when you ask
 them?
 	little more info, i am a poli sci major who just happens to know alot
 about macs but this is a bit out of my league, not to mention i don't have the
 time to go and look for all of this stuff. so i am hoping the collective
 resources and intelect of the net can help (has before) [shameless plug: buy
 empower!!! great security program!!!]
 	disclaimer:  this post is not and will never be supported by my
 university.  they do not condone in any way my using this media to illict info.
 this is a proj by bio majors so they re the real persons.
 	anyinfo please send to the email above or to make it real clear
 rmwbb@wittenberg.edu  and damn i hope my editor is alive when i get done typing
 s there is not another stupid blank post.
 	i reserve the right to claim all this info as mine and use it to get
 everything i want form my universities red taped administration.  this info may
 be used for blackmail purposes and for obtaining undo amounts of praise and god
 like status. this info may also be used to get credits i probaly really don't
 deserve.
 	that is the ned of it. any questions?  and thanks ahead of time!!
 
 once again taping the collective genius of the internet,
 
 scott d. sauer
 