SCOTLAND is facing a shortfall of 915 GPs by 2020 unless urgent action is taken to address the problem.
 The Royal College of General Practitioners (Scotland) warned yesterday that population increases over the next five years will leave the country desperately short of doctors. 
Even if growth comes at its lower predicted rate, 563 extra GPs will be needed.
RCGP chairman Dr Miles Mack, right, said: “We need up to 915 more GPs in the next five years or we face a very different 2020 Vision than the Scottish Government would wish to report.
“It takes five years after a first university medical degree to train a GP.
“We need immediate action and radical thinking if we are to save the system we have been so justly proud of.
“There is a desperate need for Scottish politicians to emulate the commitments political leaders in England have given regarding sourcing and funding a much larger GP workforce.
“We have heard one very welcome commitment to 500 extra GPs in Scotland from Scottish Labour.
 “What a loss it would be if the other parties did not seize the opportunity to save general practice. Only then can the  pressure can be lifted from A&amp;E and the rest of the NHS. 
“The Scottish Government have unfortunately not faced up to the crisis in medical services.”
 Dr Mack said government data shows there were only 35 extra GPs appointed between 2009 and 2013 and while the SNP boast that Scotland has more GPs per head than in England, this has always been the case because there are more rural areas with smaller patient lists. 
Last week, the Record told how one surgery in Grangemouth had just two doctors to attend to 10,000 patients.
The situation is so bad at Kersiebank Medical Practice patients have had to queue outside the surgery at 8am just to get an appointment that day.
A telephone triage system was branded a disgrace after patients were left hanging on the phone for up to 90 minutes.
Many who tried to get appointments were told there were none left and to go through the same process next day. Some tried for a week to get an appointment.
The Grangemouth fiasco came to light as the British Medical Association warned that a third of Scottish GPs hope to retire in the next five years and a fifth of Scottish practices are already short-staffed. And in a ComRes poll carried out in March and April, 36 per cent of Scots said the last time they tried to book an appointment, they couldn’t get to see their GP within the Government’s 48-hour target.
The same poll showed 73 per cent of Scots agree the Government should provide financial incentives for under-doctored areas and 61 per cent feel the bulk of the &pound;40million Primary Care Fund announced by Holyrood last November should go to frontline GP services.
The RCGP have had no indication as to where any of those funds will be spent.
Dr Mack added: “Almost six months is a reasonable amount of time in which to consider the many options RCGP Scotland and others have suggested.
“The Government must now be transparent with their plans. We cannot wait. Action must be taken now.”
Scottish Labour health spokesman Jenny Marra said: “We know our GPs are under real pressure trying to keep our communities healthy and the reliance on locums is hurting the public purse.
“Labour’s plan to invest in our NHS by raising tax for the very wealthiest across the UK will allow us to attract more doctors into GP practice.
“The RCGP are right to recognise that Labour is the only party with a plan to tackle our NHS staffing crisis and we look forward to working with them to build the kind of NHS we want for Scotland.”
Tory Jackson Carlaw said: “An ageing population is going to pose a number of problems for the NHS in years to come.
“Preparation should have started for this years ago but the Scottish Government appears to have been surprised by this trend.”
Lib Dem Jim Hume added: “Each week we see another example of our health service struggling to cope while SNP ministers seem oblivious to the growing crisis. Only Liberal Democrats are committed to a fully costed, responsible plan to increase funding for Scotland’s NHS by &pound;800million and deliver the support it so desperately needs.”
 Health Secretary Shona Robison said: “Under this Government, the number of GPs employed in Scotland has risen by 6.9 per cent to nearly 5000 – the highest on record. 
“We have also increased funding by 10 per cent.
“This Government will continue supporting Scottish general practice. For example, the recently agreed GP contract aims to give the profession stability over the next three years – reducing bureaucracy and allowing doctors to spend more time with patients.
 “And we will continue to work with the RCGP, the BMA and others to find innovative solutions to GP recruitment and retention challenges.” 

