THE number of sex offenders who re-offend once released has increased. There has been a jump in the number who commit crimes within a year of leaving prison, up from 52 in 2004 to 76 in 2012.
Sex offenders also face waits of up to six months for treatment, as the therapy programme introduced last year struggles to train enough social workers to deliver the counselling.
Glasgow, Edinburgh, North Lanarkshire and Fife local authorities have all said they cannot cope with demand and that around 40 dangerous sex offenders are on the waiting list.
Now campaigners are calling for the Multi-Agency Protection Arrangements - the rules that govern sex offenders living in the community - to be overhauled.
Glaswegian campaigner Margaret-Ann Cummings, whose eight-year-old son Mark was murdered by a convicted paedophile in 2004, said that the figures were going in the wrong direction. She feels that the agencies involved treat sex offenders like ordinary criminals instead of determined, manipulative individuals.
“They are devious and driven,” she told the Daily Mail. “It’s clear that there now has to be a fundamental rethink of how society deals with them.
“Jail sentences must be longer, treatment must be thorough and, when they are released back in the community, there must be full disclosure of who they are so communities and families can protect themselves.
According to the Scottish Government, of the 624 registered sex offenders released from prison or given a community sentence in 2012, 76 reoffended within the first year. Between them they commited 104 crimes. Some 14 of these were sex offences and 16 other serious crimes.
The Scottish Government claims that these figures offer some hope. A spokesperson said: “Only 2.1 per cent of these types of offenders went on to be reconvicted for further sexual crime in 2012-2013. The reconviction rate for sexual crime also decreased in the past year.
“The fact that the reconviction rate in Scotland is now at its lowest for 16 years is to be welcomed but clearly there is still further work to do to reduce these figures further.”

