
 in article <1993mar29.113528.930@news.wesleyan.edu> rginzberg@eagle.wesleyan.edu (ruth ginzberg) writes:
 
 >hmmmm... here's one place where i really think the patient ought to take more
 >responsibility for him- or herself.  there is absolutely no reason why you
 >can't ask the pharmacist filling the prescription for the "physicians' package
 >insert" for the medication when you pick it up at the pharmacy.  make sure to
 >tell the pharmacist that you want the "physicians' package insert" *not* the
 
 if people are going to do this, i really wish they would tell me first.
 i'd be happy to go over the insert (in the pdr) with them and explain
 everything.  all too many patients read the insert and panic and then
 on the next visit sheepishly admit they were afraid to take the drug
 and we are starting over again at square one.  some of them probably
 didn't even come back for followup because they didn't want to admit
 they wouldn't take the drug or thought i was trying to kill them or
 something.  what people don't understand about the inserts is that they
 report every adverse side effect ever reported, without substantiating
 that the drug was responsible.  the insert is a legal document to slough
 liability from the manufacturer to the physician if something was to
 happen.  if patients want to have the most useful and reliable information
 on a drug they would be so much better off getting hold of one of the
 ama drug evaluation books or something similar that is much more scientific.
 there are very few drugs that someone hasn't reported a death from taking.
 patients don't realize that and don't usually appreciate the risks
 to themselves properly.  i'm sure herman is going to "go ballistic",
 but so be it.  another problem is that probably most drugs have been
 reported to cause impotence.  half the males who read that will falsely assume
 it could permanently cause them to lose sexual function and so will
 refuse to take any drug like that.  this can be a real problem for
 pdr readers.  there needs to be some way of providing patients with
 tools geared to them that allow them to get the information they need.
 i am involved in a research project to do that, with migraine as the
 domain.  it involves a computer system that will provide answers to questions
 about migraine as well as the therapy prescribed for the patient.
 for common illnesses, such as migraine and hypertension, this may help
 quite a bit.  the patient could spend as much time as needed with the
 computer and this would then not burden the physician.  clearly,
 physicians in large part fail to answer all the questions patients have,
 as is demonstrated over and over here on the net where we get asked
 things that the patients should have found out from their physician
 but didn't.  why they didn't isn't always the physician's fault either.
 sometimes the patients are afraid to ask.  they won't be as afraid to
 ask the system, we hope.
 -- 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 gordon banks  n3jxp      | "skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, and
 geb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu   |  it is shameful to surrender it too soon." 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 