
 
 
      the biggest reason why the cost of medical care is so extremely high and
 increasing is that natural methods of treatment and even diagnosis are still
 being systematically ignored and suppressed by the money-grubbing and power-
 mongering "medical" establishment.
      some examples of very low cost natural anti-cancer remedies are listed in
 the following article:
 
 
                           natural anti-cancer remedies
                                  a 3rd opinion
           
                ( some of these remedies also work against aids. )
 
 
           disclaimer: this list was compiled from unorthodox sources 
           that have shown themselves to be reliable.  the compiler of 
           this list is not a doctor of any kind, but is exercising his 
           first amendment constitutional right of free speech on the 
           subjects of his choice. 
 
 
           ( most of these remedies can be found in any grocery store.  
           most of the rest of them can be found in any health food 
           store.  what is important is how they are used, and what 
           else is excluded during their use. )
 
 
           (1) the 7-day fast. 
                1st day: eat as much fresh fruit as you want, one kind 
           at a time, preferably grapes. 
                2nd day: eat all the vegetables you want, at least half 
           raw, including garlic; also, whole kernel corn to help scrape 
           clean the intestinal linings. 
                3rd day: drink all the fresh fruit and vegetable juice 
           you want.  preferably start with 16 to 32 ounces of prune 
           juice with pulp, followed by a gallon of pure (not from 
           concentrate) apple juice, then grape juice.  (stay close to 
           your home bathroom.) 
                4th day: eat all the un-salted nuts (no peanuts) and 
           dried fruit you want, preferably raisins and almonds (almonds 
           contain laetrile.). 
                5th day: one gallon of lemonade.  squeeze the juice from 
           two lemons into a gallon of water (preferably distilled), and 
           add 2 to 4 tablespoons of locally-made honey, (no sugar).  
           drink one glass per hour.
           [everyone, including healthy people, should do this one day 
           every week, preceded by a large glass of prune juice with 
           pulp.] 
                6th day: same as 5th day. 
                7th day: same as 6th day. 
                all 7 days, eat only the foods listed above for each 
           day, along with your usual vitamin and mineral supplements, 
           plus as much distilled water as you want. 
 
           (2) the grape diet. 
                eat 2 to 3 ounces of fresh grapes every 2 hours, 8 am to 
           8 pm, every day for six days.  eat nothing else during the 
           six days, but drink as much distilled water as you want. 
       
           (3) apple cider vinegar.
                mix a teaspoon of pure apple cider vinegar (not apple 
           cider "flavored" vinegar.  regular vinegar is harmful.) in a 
           glass of water (preferably distilled) and drink all of it.  
           do this 3 or 4 times per day, for 3 weeks; then stop for a 
           week.  repeat if desired.  do this along with a normal 
           healthy diet of natural foods.  this remedy is especially 
           effective against those types of cancer that resemble a 
           fungus, as well as against other kinds of fungus infections. 
         
           (4) the sea-salt & soda bath.  [please keep an open mind.]
                fill a bathtub with moderately warm water so the level 
           comes up almost to the overflow drain when you get in.  
           immerse yourself in it for a minute, and then completely 
           dissolve in the bath water 1 pound of sun-evaporated sea-salt 
           (regular salt won't work.) and 1 pound of fresh baking-soda. 
                soak in this bath for 10 to 20 minutes, while exercising 
           your fingers, toes, and limbs, turning sideways and onto your 
           stomach, dunking your head, sitting up and laying back down, 
           chomping your teeth together, etc.. 
                among other things, the sea-salt & soda bath neutralizes 
           the accumulated effects of x-rays, etc., as described in the 
           book "born to be magnetic, vol. 2", by frances nixon, 1973. 
                precautions: only the one person using each bath should 
           prepare it and drain it.
           for at least 30 minutes after taking the bath, stay away 
           from, and even out of sight of, other people.  (your greatly 
           expanded aura energy-field during that time could disrupt 
           other people's fields.)  two hours after the bath, eat at 
           least 8 ounces of yogurt containing active yogurt cultures.  
           (the bath may kill friendly bacteria also.)  better yet, take 
           a 2-billion-bacteria "acidophilus" capsule, which is also an 
           excellent daily remedy against the effects of "a.i.d.s." 
           (because it kills all kinds of harmful bacteria in the 
           digestive tract, taking a big load off the remaining immune 
           system).  [because this external bath can kill in-ternal 
           bacteria, it may also be a cure for "lyme disease".]
           do not take this bath within a few hundred miles of a thunder 
           storm, within 3 days of a full moon, nor during "major" or 
           "minor periods" as listed in the "solunar tables" published 
           bimonthly in "field & stream" magazine, (because of the 
           measurable disruptive ambient environmental energy-fields 
           present at those times).
           do not take this bath more than four times per year. 
        
           (5) miscellaneous natural anti-cancer remedies: 
        
                for skin cancer, apply stabilized aloe vera jel to the 
                affected skin twice daily, and take 2 to 4 tablespoons 
                per day of stabilized aloe vera juice internally, for 
                about 2 months. 
         
                d.m.s.o. (dimethyl sulfoxide) causes cancer cells to 
                perform normal cell functions. 
 
                almonds (un-blanched, un-roasted) contain laetrile.  
                to help prevent cancer, eat several almonds every day.  
                to help cure cancer, eat several ounces of almonds per 
                day.
                [never take large concentrated doses of laetrile orally.  
                it will kill you!  take it intravenously only.  (cancer 
                cells contain a certain enzyme which converts laetrile 
                into cyanide, which then kills the cell.  this enzyme is 
                also present in the digestive system.)] 
 
                anti-oxidants are free-radical scavengers, and include 
                vitamin e, selenium (200 mcg. per day is safe for most 
                people.), chromium (up to 100 mcg. per day), vitamin a 
                (25,000 iu per day is safe for most people.), superoxide 
                dismutase (up to 4,000,000 units per day), vitamin c (up 
                to 3000 mg. per day), and bht (butylated hydroxy-
                toluene), [1 to 4 capsules of bht every night at bedtime 
                will also make one immune against herpes (both types), 
                suppress herpes symptoms if one already has herpes, 
                prevent spreading herpes to other people, but will not 
                cure herpes.  bht might also do these things against 
                "a.i.d.s.", which is really a form of cancer similar to 
                leukemia.]  (see the book "life extension", by durk 
                pearson and sandy shaw.) 
 
                hydrogen-peroxide.  dilute twelve(12) drops of 3% 
                hydrogen-peroxide in a glass of pure water (preferably 
                distilled) and drink it.  do this once or twice per day, 
                hours before or after eating or drinking anything else.  
                apply 3% hydrogen-peroxide directly to skin cancers 
                several times per day.
                use hydrogen-peroxide only if you are taking a good 
                daily dose of some of the various anti-oxidants 
                described above. 
 
                vitamin & mineral supplements are more effective, and 
                much less expensive, when combined together in mega 
                doses into single tablets made from natural sources. 
 
                cancer cells can not live in a strong (100,000 maxwell) 
                north magnetic field, especially if it is pulsating on 
                and off.  [a strong south magnetic field is an 
                aphrodisiac.]  in my opinion, all types of ionizing-
                radiation treatments for cancer should be replaced with 
                daily 30-minute doses of pulsating 100,000-maxwell north 
                magnetic fields. 
 
                properly made and operated radionics/psionics machines 
                can both diagnose and cure all forms of cancer, as well 
                as most other medical problems.  some radionics/psionics 
                machines can even take cross-sectional x-ray-like photos 
                of cancer tumors, etc., with-out x-rays! 
 
                interferon tablets.
 
                taheebo tea, (lapacho). 
            
                homeopathy can cure cancer, and many other medical 
                problems (even drug addiction!). 
 
                50 mg. per day of chelated zinc can help prevent or cure 
                prostate trouble. 
 
                this list is not exhaustive. 
 
 
           the above natural remedies can cure both diagnosed and un-
           diagnosed cancers, as well as prevent them, and also prevent 
           and cure many other medical problems including heart-
           diseases.  they are not too simple and inexpensive to work 
           effectively. 
 
           besides acting on a person biologically and chemically, these 
           remedies, especially the 7-day fast and the grape diet, send 
           a strong message to one's subconscious mind, programming it 
           to cure the cancer. 
 
           in my opinion, if a person finds out that s/he has cancer, 
           then s/he should promptly try at least the first 4 remedies 
           described above, in sequence (starting with the 7-day fast), 
           before resorting to the un-natural and expensive mutilations 
           and agonies [poison, burn, and mutilate!] of orthodox cancer 
           treatment [organi$ed-crime!]. 
           
           
           disclaimer: this list was compiled from unorthodox sources 
           that have shown themselves to be reliable.  the compiler of 
           this list is not a doctor of any kind, but is exercising his 
           first amendment constitutional right of free speech on the 
           subjects of his choice. 
 
 
           for more information, contact cancer control society, 2043 n. 
           berendo st., los angeles, ca  90027, and/or other organiza-
           tions listed in the "alternative medicine" and "holistic 
           medicine" portions of the "health and medical organizations" 
           section (section 8) of the latest edition of the "encyclope-
           dia of associations" reference book in your local public or 
           university library. 
 
 
                un-altered reproduction and dissemination of this 
           important information is encouraged. 
 
           
                                    robert e. mcelwaine
          
 
 