
 archive-name: typing-injury-faq/general
 version: $revision: 4.28 $ $date: 1993/04/13 04:17:58 $
 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          answers to frequently asked questions about typing injuries
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 the typing injury faq -- sources of information for people with typing
 injuries, repetitive stress injuries, carpal tunnel syndrome, etc.
 
 copyright 1992,1993 by dan wallach <dwallach@cs.berkeley.edu>
 
 many faqs, including this one, are available on the archive site
 pit-manager.mit.edu (alias rtfm.mit.edu) [18.172.1.27] in the directory
 pub/usenet/news.answers.  the name under which a faq is archived appears
 in the archive-name line at the top of the article.  this faq is archived
 as typing-injury-faq/general.z
 
 there's a mail server also.  just e-mail mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu
 with the word 'help' on a line by itself in the body.
 
 the opinions in here are my own, unless otherwise mentioned, and do not
 represent the opinions of any organization or vendor.  i'm not a medical
 doctor, so my advice should be taken with many grains of salt.
 
 [current distribution: sci.med.occupational, sci.med, comp.human-factors,
  {news,sci,comp}.answers, and e-mail to c+health@iubvm.ucs.indiana.edu,
  sorehand@vm.ucsf.edu, and cstg-l@vtvm1.cc.vt.edu]
 
 changes since previously distributed versions are marked with change        ||
 bars to the right of the text, as is this paragraph.                        ||
 
 table of contents:
     ==1== mailing lists, newsgroups, etc.
     ==2== the soda.berkeley.edu archive
     ==3== general info on injuries
     ==4== typing posture, ergonomics, prevention, treatment
     ==5== requests for more info
     ==6== references
 
 ==1== mailing lists, newsgroups, etc.
 
 usenet news:
 -----------
 comp.human-factors occasionally has discussion about alternative input devices.
 comp.risks has an occasional posting relevant to injuries via computers.
 sci.med and misc.handicap also tend to have relevant traffic.
 
 there's a brand new newsgroup, sci.med.occupational, chartered specifically
 to discuss these things.  this would be the recommended place to post.
 
 mailing lists:
 -------------
 the rsi network: available both on paper and via e-mail, this publication
     covers issues relevant to those with repetitive stress injuries.  for
     a sample issue and subscription information, send a stamped, self-
     addressed business envelope to caroline rose, 970 paradise way, palo
     alto ca 94306.
 
     e-mail to <crose@applelink.apple.com>
 
     $2 donation, requested.
 
     all rsi network newsletters are available via anonymous ftp from
     soda.berkeley.edu (see below for details).
 
 c+health and sorehand are both ibm listserv things.  for those familiar
     with listserv, here's the quick info:
 
     c+health -- subscribe to listserv@iubvm.ucs.indiana.edu
 		post to c+health@iubvm.ucs.indiana.edu
 
     sorehand -- subscribe to listserv@vm.ucsf.edu
 		post to sorehand@vm.ucsf.edu
 
 quick tutorial on subscribing to a listserv:
     % mail listserv@vm.ucsf.edu
     subject: total listserv mania!
 
     subscribe sorehand j. random hacker
     info ?
     .
 that's all there is to it.  you'll get bunches of mail back from the listserv,
 including a list of other possible commands you can mail.  cool, huh?  what'll
 those bitnet people think of, next?
 
 ==2== the soda.berkeley.edu archive
 
 i've started an archive site for info related to typing injuries.  just
 anonymous ftp to soda.berkeley.edu:pub/typing-injury.  (128.32.149.19)
 currently, you'll find:
 
 informative files:
     typing-injury-faq/
         general           -- information about typing injuries
         keyboards         -- products to replace your keyboard
         software          -- software to watch your keyboard usage
 	changes		  -- changes since last month's edition (new!)	    ||
 
     keyboard-commentary   -- dan's opinions on the keyboard replacements
     amt.advice		  -- about adverse mechanical tension
     caringforwrists.sit.hqx -- pagemaker4 document about your wrists
     caringforwrists.ps	  -- postscript converted version of above...
     carpal.info           -- info on carpal tunnel syndrome
     carpal.explained	  -- very detailed information about cts
     carpal.surgery	  -- jama article on cts surgery
     carpal.tidbits	  -- tidbits article on cts
     tendonitis.info       -- info on tendonitis
     rsi.biblio		  -- bibliography of rsi-related publications
 
     rsi-network/*         -- archive of the rsi network newsletter
 			     (currently, containing issues 1 through 11)    ||
     
     rsi.details		  -- long detailed information about rsi
     rsi.physical	  -- study showing rsi isn't just psychological
 
     various product literature:
 
     apple-press		  -- press release on the apple adjustable keyboard
     apple-tidbits	  -- extensive info about apple's adjustable keybd
     bat-info		  -- macweek review on the bat			    ||
     comfort-*		  -- marketing info on the comfort keyboard
     datahand-review	  -- detailed opinions of the datahand
     datahand-review2	  -- follow-up to above
     datahand-desc	  -- description of the datahand's appearance
     kinesis-review	  -- one user's personal opinions
     maltron-*		  -- marketing info on various maltron products
     maltron-review	  -- one user's personal opinions
     vertical-info	  -- marketing info on the vertical (new!)	    ||
 
 programs:
     (with the exception of accpak.exe, everything here is distributed as
      source to be compiled with a unix system.  some programs take advantage
      of the x window system, also.)
 
     hsh.shar		  -- a program for one-handed usage of normal keyboards
     typewatch.shar	  -- tells you when to take a break
     xdvorak.c		  -- turns your qwerty keyboard into dvorak
     xidle.shar		  -- keeps track of how long you've been typing
     rest-reminder.sh      -- yet another idle watcher
     kt15.tar  		  -- generates fake x keyboard events from the
 			     serial port -- use a pc keyboard on anything!
 			     (new improved version!)
     accpak.exe		  -- a serial port keyboard spoofer for ms windows
 
     (note: a2x.tar and rk.tar are both from export.lcs.mit.edu:contrib/
      so they may have a more current version than soda.)
 
     a2x.tar  		  -- a more sophisticated x keyboard/mouse spoofing
 			     program.  supports dragondictate.
 			     (note: a new version is now available)	    ||
     rk.tar  		  -- the reactive keyboard -- predicts what you'll
 			     type next -- saves typing
 
 pictures (in the gifs subdirectory):
     howtosit.gif	  -- picture of good sitting posture
 			     (the caringforwrists document is better for this)
 
     accukey1.gif	  -- fuzzy picture
     accukey2.gif	  -- fuzzy picture with somebody using it
     apple.gif		  -- the apple adjustable keyboard		    ||
     bat.gif               -- the infogrip bat
     comfort.gif           -- the health care comfort keyboard
     datahand1.gif	  -- fuzzy picture
     datahand2.gif	  -- key layout schematic
     datahand3.gif	  -- a much better picture of the datahand
     flexpro.gif		  -- the key tronic flexpro keyboard		    ||
     kinesis1.gif          -- the kinesis ergonomic keyboard
     kinesis2.gif	  -- multiple views of the kinesis		    ||
     maltron[1-4].gif      -- several pictures of maltron products
     mikey1.gif            -- the mikey
     mikey2.gif            -- schematic picture of the mikey
     tony.gif		  -- the tony! ergonomic keysystem		    ||
     twiddler1.gif	  -- "front" view
     twiddler2.gif	  -- "side" view
     vertical.gif	  -- the vertical keyboard			    ||
     wave.gif		  -- the iocomm `wave' keyboard
 
 many files are compressed (have a .z ending).  if you can't uncompress a file
 locally, soda will do it.  just ask for the file, without the .z extension.
 
 if you're unable to ftp to soda, send me e-mail and we'll see what we
 can arrange.
 
 ==3== general info on injuries
 
 first, and foremost of importance: if you experience pain at all, then
 you absolutely need to go see a doctor.  as soon as you possibly can.  the
 difference of a day or two can mean the difference between a short recovery
 and a long, drawn-out ordeal.  go see a doctor.  now, your garden-variety
 doctor may not necessarily be familiar with this sort of injury.  generally,
 any hospital with an occupational therapy clinic will offer specialists in
 these kinds of problems.  don't wait, though.  go see a doctor.
 
 the remainder of this information is paraphrased, without permission, from
 a wonderful report by new zealand's department of labour (occupational
 safety and health service): "occupational overuse syndrome. treatment and
 rehabilitation: a practitioner's guide".
 
 first, a glossary (or, fancy names for how you shouldn't have your hands):
 (note: you're likely to hear these terms from doctors and keyboard vendors :)
 
   rsi: repetitive strain injury - a general term for many kinds of injuries
   oos: occupational overuse syndrome -- synonym for rsi
   ctd: cumulative trauma disorder -- another synonym for rsi
   wruld: work-related upper limb disorders -- yet another synonym for rsi
   cts: carpal tunnel syndrome (see below)
   hyperextension:  marked bending at a joint.
   pronation: turning the palm down.
   wrist extension: bending the wrist up.
   supination: turning the palm up.
   wrist flexion: bending the wrist down.
   pinch grip: the grip used for a pencil.
   ulnar deviation: bending the wrist towards the little finger.
   power grip: the grip used for a hammer.
   radial deviation: bending the wrist toward the thumb.
   abduction: moving away from the body.
   overspanning: opening the fingers out wide.
 
 now then, problems come in two main types: local conditions and diffuse
 conditions.  local problems are what you'd expect: specific muscles,
 tendons, tendon sheaths, nerves, etc. being inflamed or otherwise hurt.
 diffuse conditions, often mistaken for local problems, can involve muscle
 discomfort, pain, burning and/or tingling; with identifiable areas of
 tenderness in muscles, although they're not necessarily "the problem."
 
 --- why does occupational overuse syndrome occur?  here's the theory.
 
 normally, your muscles and tendons get blood through capillaries which
 pass among the muscle fibers.  when you tense a muscle, you restrict
 the blood flow.  by the time you're exerting 50% of your full power,
 you're completely restricting your blood flow.
 
 without fresh blood, your muscles use stored energy until they run out,
 then they switch to anaerobic (without oxygen) metabolism, which generates
 nasty by-products like lactic acid, which cause pain.
 
 once one muscle hurts, all its neighbors tense up, perhaps to relieve the
 load.  this makes sense for your normal sort of injury, but it only makes
 things worse with repetitive motion.  more tension means less blood flow,
 and the cycle continues.
 
 another by-product of the lack of blood flow is tingling and numbness from
 your nerves.  they need blood too.
 
 anyway, when you're typing too much, you're never really giving a change
 for the blood to get back where it belongs, because your muscles never
 relax enough to let the blood through.  stress, poor posture, and poor
 ergonomics, only make things worse.
 
 --- specific injuries you may have heard of:
 
 (note: most injuries come in two flavors: acute and chronic.  acute
 injuries are severely painful and noticable.  chronic conditions have
 less pronounced symptoms but are every bit as real.)
 
 tenosynovitis -- an inflamation of the tendon sheath.  chronic tenosynovitis
 occurs when the repetitive activity is mild or intermittent: not enough to
 cause acute inflamation, but enough to exceed the tendon sheath's ability
 to lubricate the tendon.  as a result, the tendon sheath thickens, gets
 inflamed, and you've got your problem.
 
 tendonitis -- an inflammation of a tendon.  repeated tensing of a tendon
 can cause inflamation.  eventually, the fibers of the tendon start separating,
 and can even break, leaving behind debris which induces more friction, more
 swelling, and more pain.  "sub-acute" tendonitis is more common, which entails
 a dull ache over the wrist and forearm, some tenderness, and it gets worse
 with repetitive activity.
 
 carpal tunnel syndrome -- the nerves that run through your wrist into your
 fingers get trapped by the inflamed muscles around them.  symptoms include
 feeling "pins and needles", tingling, numbness, and even loss of sensation.
 cts is often confused for a diffuse condition.
 
 adverse mechanical tension -- also known as 'neural tension', this is where
 the nerves running down to your arm have become contracted and possibly
 compressed as a result of muscle spasms in the shoulders and elsewhere.
 amt can often misdiagnosed as or associated with one of the other oos 
 disorders.  it is largely reversible and can be treated with physiotherapy 
 (brachial plexus stretches and trigger point therapy).
 
 others: for just about every part of your body, there's a fancy name for
 a way to injure it.  by now, you should be getting an idea of how oos
 conditions occur and why.  just be careful: many inexperienced doctors
 misdiagnose problems as carpal tunnel syndrome, when in reality, you
 may have a completely different problem.  always get a second opinion
 before somebody does something drastic to you (like surgery).
 
 ==4== typing posture, ergonomics, prevention, treatment
 
 the most important element of both prevention and recovery is to reduce
 tension in the muscles and tendons.  this requires learning how to relax.
 if you're under a load of stress, this is doubly important.  tune out
 the world and breath deep and regular.  relaxing should become a guiding
 principle in your work: every three minutes take a three second break.
 every three minutes, take a three second break.  really, do it every
 three minutes.  it's also helpful to work in comfortable surroundings,
 calm down, and relax.
 
 if you can't sleep, you really need to focus on this.  rest, sleep, and
 relaxation are really a big deal.
 
 there are all kinds of other treatments, of course.  drugs can reduce
 inflamation and pain.  custom-molded splints can forcefully prevent bad
 posture.  surgery can fix some problems.  exercise can help strengthen
 your muscles.  regular stretching can help prevent injury.  good posture
 and a good ergonomic workspace promote reduced tension.  ice or hot-cold
 contrast baths also reduce swelling.  only your doctor can say what's best
 for you.
 
 --- posture -- here are some basic guidelines.  [i so liked the way this was
 written in the new zealand book that i'm lifting it almost verbatim from
 appendix 10. -- dwallach]
 
 . let your shoulders relax.
 . let your elbows swing free.
 . keep your wrists straight.
 . pull your chin in to look down - don't flop your head forward.
 . keep the hollow in the base of your spine.
 . try leaning back in the chair.
 . don't slouch or slump forward.
 . alter your posture from time to time.
 . every 20 minutes, get up and bend your spine backward.
 
 set the seat height, first.  your feet should be flat on the floor.  there 
 should be no undue pressure on the underside of your thighs near the knees,
 and your thighs should not slope too much.
 
 now, draw yourself up to your desk and see that its height is comfortable
 to work at.  if you are short, this may be impossible.  the beest remedy
 is to raise the seat height and prevent your legs from dangling by using a
 footrest.
 
 now, adjust the backrest height so that your buttocks fit into the space
 between the backrest and the seat pan.  the backrest should support you in
 the hollow of your back, so adjust its tilt to give firm support in this
 area.
 
 if you operate a keyboard, you will be able to spend more time leaning
 back, so experiment with a chair with a taller backrest, if available.
 
 [now, i diverge a little from the text]
 
 a good chair makes a big difference.  if you don't like your chair, go
 find a better one.  you really want adjustments for height, back angle,
 back height, and maybe even seat tilt.  most arm rests seem to get in
 the way, although some more expensive chairs have height adjustable arm
 rests which you can also rotate out of the way.  you should find a good
 store and play with all these chairs -- pick one that's right for you.
 in the san francisco bay area, i highly recommend "just chairs."  the
 name says it all.
 
 --- keyboard drawers, wrist pads, and keyboard replacements:
 
 there is a fair amount of controvery on how to get this right.  for some
 people, wrist pads seem to work wonders.  however, with good posture, you
 shouldn't be resting your wrists on anything -- you would prefer your
 keyboard to be "right there".  if you drop your arms at your side and then
 lift your hands up at the elbow, you want your keyboard under your hands
 when your elbows are at about 90 degrees.  of course, you want to avoid
 pronation, wrist extension, and ulnar deviation at all costs.  wrist pads
 may or may not help at this.  you should get somebody else to come and
 look at how you work: how you sit, how you type, and how you relax.  it's
 often easier for somebody else to notice your hunched shoulders or
 deviated hands.
 
 some argue that the normal, flat keyboard is antiquated and poorly
 designed.  a number of replacements are available, on the market, today.
 check out the accompanying typing-injury-faq/keyboards for much detail.
 
 ==5== requests for more info
 
 clearly, the above information is incomplete.  the typing-injury archive
 is incomplete.  there's always more information out there.  if you'd like
 to submit something, please send me mail, and i'll gladly throw it in.
 
 if you'd like to maintain a list of products or vendors, that would be
 wonderful!  i'd love somebody to make a list of chair/desk vendors.  i'd
 love somebody to make a list of doctors.  i'd love somebody to edit the
 above sections, looking for places where i've obviously goofed.
 
 ==6== references
 
 i completely rewrote the information section here, using a wonderful
 guide produced in new zealand by their occupational safety & health
 service, a service of their department of labour.  special thanks
 to the authors: wigley, turner, blake, darby, mcinnes, and harding.
 
 semi-bibliographic reference:
     . occupational overuse syndrome
     . treatment and rehabilitation:
       a practitioner's guide
     
     published by the occupational safety and health service
     department of labour
     wellington,
     new zealand.
 
     first edition: june 1992
     isbn 0-477-3499-3
 
     price: $9.95 (new zealand $'s, of course)
 
 thanks to richard donkin <richardd@hoskyns.co.uk> for reviewing this posting.
 
 -- 
 dan wallach               "one of the most attractive features of a connection
 dwallach@cs.berkeley.edu  machine is the array of blinking lights on the faces
 office#: 510-642-9585     of its cabinet." -- cm paris ref. manual, v6.0, p48.
 