
 in article <c5je94.krl@unx.sas.com> sasghm@theseus.unx.sas.com (gary merrill) writes:
 >
 >in article <1993apr15.161112.21772@cs.rochester.edu>, fulk@cs.rochester.edu (mark fulk) writes:
 >
 >|> i don't think "extra-scientific" is a very useful phrase in a discussion
 >|> of the boundaries of science, except as a proposed definiens.
 >|> extra-rational
 >|> is a better phrase.  in fact, there are quite a number of well-known cases
 >|> of extra-rational considerations driving science in a useful direction.
 >
 >yeah, but the problem with holding up the "extra-rational" examples as
 >exemplars, or as refutations of well founded methodology, is that you
 >run smack up against such unuseful directions as lysenko.  such "extra-
 >rational" cases are curiosities -- not guides to methodology.
 
 as has been noted before, there is the distinction between _motivation_
 and _method_.  no experimental result should be accepted unless it is
 described in sufficient detail to be replicated, and the replications
 do indeed reproduce the result.  no theoretical argument should be
 accepted unless it is presented in sufficient detail to be followed, and
 reasonable, knowlegeable, people agree with the force of the logic.
 
 but people try experiments, and pursue arguments, for all sorts of crazy
 reasons.  irrational motivations are not just curiousities; they are a
 large part of the history of science.
 
 there are a couple of negative points to make here:
 
 1) a theory of qi could, conceivably, become accepted without direct
 verification of the existence of qi.  for example, quarks are an accepted
 part of the standard model of physics, with no direct verification.  what
 would be needed would be a theory, based on qi, that predicted medical
 reality better than the alternatives.  the central theoretical claim could
 lie forever beyond experiment, as long as there was a sufficient body of
 experimental data that the qi theory predicted better than any other.
 
 (i wouldn't hold my breath waiting for the triumph of qi, though.
 i don't think that there is even a coherent theory based on it, much less
 a theory that explains anything at all better than modern biology.  and it
 is hard to imagine a qi theory that would not predict some way of rather
 directly verifying the existence of qi.)
 
 2) science has not historically progressed in any sort of rational
 experiment-data-theory sequence.  most experiments are carried out, and
 interpreted, in pre-existing theoretical frameworks.  the theoretical
 controversies of the day determine which experiments get done.  overall,
 there is a huge messy affair of personal jealousies, crazy motivations,
 petty hatreds, and the like that determines which experiments, and which
 computations, get done.  what keeps it going forward is the critical
 function of science: results don't count unless they can be replicated.
 
 the whole system is a sort of mechanism for generate-and-test.  the generate
 part can be totally irrational, as long as the test part works properly.
 
 pasteur could believe whatever he liked about chemical activity and crystals;
 but even mitscherlich had to agree that racemic acid crystals were handed;
 that when you separate them by handedness, you get two chemicals that rotate
 polarized light in opposite directions; and the right-rotating version was
 indistinguishable from tartaric acid.  pasteur's irrational motivation had
 led to a replicable, and important, result.
 
 this is where lysenko, creationists, etc. fail.  they have usually not
 even produced coherent theories that predict much of anything.  when their
 theories do predict, and are contradicted by experiment, they do not
 concede the point and modify their theories; rather they try to suppress
 the results (lysenko) or try to divert attention to other evidence they
 think supports their position (creationists).
 -- 
 mark a. fulk			university of rochester
 computer science department	fulk@cs.rochester.edu
 