
 carl@sol1.gps.caltech.edu (carl j lydick) writes:
 
 >of course, bee venom isn't a single chemical.  could be your brother is
 >reacting to a different component than the one that causes anaphylactic shock
 >in other people.
 
 >similarly, chinese food isn't just msg.  there are a lot of other
 >ingredients in it.  why, when someone eats something with lots of
 >ingredients they don't normally consume, one of which happens to be
 >msg, do they immediately conclude that any negative reaction is to
 >the msg? 
 
 arghhhhhhhhhh
 
 read the memos!!!!
 
 i said that i personally had other people order the exact same food at
 two different times from the same restaurant and the people that
 ordered the food for me did not tell me which time the msg was in the
 food and which time it was not in the food.
 
 one time i had a reaction
 
 one time i did not
 
 the reaction came the time the msg was in the food
 
 that was the only difference
 
 same restaurant - same ingredients!!!
 
 >why, when someone eats something with lots of ingredients they don't
 >normally consume, one of which happens to be msg, do they immediately
 >conclude that any negative reaction is to the msg? 
 
 i eat lots of chinese food - i love chinese food.  i've just learned
 the following
 
 if i get food at one of the restaurants that does not use msg or
 
 if i prepare the food myself without msg or 
 
 if i order the food from a restaurant that will hold the msg (and i
 never get soup unless it's from a restaurant that cooks without the
 msg)
 
 i do not get a reaction!!!!
 
 okay
 
 do you understand!!!!
 
 i get a reaction from msg
 
 i do not get a reaction when there is no msg
 
 if you're having trouble understand this, please tell me which of the
 words you do not understand and i'll look them up in the dictionary
 for you.
 
 --
 the great secret of successful marriage is to treat all disasters
 as incidents and none of the incidents as disasters.    
   -- harold nicholson
 
     mary allison (mary@uicsl.csl.uiuc.edu) urbana, illinois
 