
      gordon rubenfeld responds to ron roth:
 gr>  ron.roth@rose.com (ron roth) wrote:
 gr>
 gr> rr> well, gordon, i look at the results, not at anyone's *scientific*
 gr> rr> stamp of approval.
 gr>  
 gr>    if you and your patients (followers?) are convinced (as you've written)
 gr>  by your methods of uncontrolled, undocumented, unreported, unsubstantiated,
 gr>  subjective endpoint research - great.  but, why should the rest of us care?
 
  gordon, even if you are trying to beat this issue to death, you'll 
  never get more than a stalemate out of this one!
  i have never tried to force my type of medicine on any of you. why 
  should i?  my patients are happy. i'm happy. you and your peers seem 
  to be the only miserable ones around bemoaning the steady loss of 
  patients to the alternative camp.
  just look at europe. there has been a steady exodus from 'synthetic' 
  medicine for over a decade now, and it'll be just a matter of time
  before more people on this continent will abandon their drug and white 
  coat worship as well and visit different doctors for different needs.
 
 gr>     you see ron, the point isn't whether you and your patients are
 gr>  convinced that whatever it is you do works; it's whether what you do is
 gr>  more effective in similar cases (of whatever it is you think you are
 gr>  treating) than cupping, bloodletting, and placebo.
 
  this is very interesting. i have come exactly to the same conclusions
  but in regards to *conventional* medicine.
 
  you see, i don't just treat little old ladies that wouldn't know any
  different of what is being done, but a bulk of my patients consist of
  teachers, lawyers, judges, nurses, accountants, university graduates,
  and various health practitioners.
  if these people have gotten results with my method after having been
  unsuccessful with yours or their own, i certainly wouldn't lose any 
  sleep over whether you or your peers approve of my treatments --- 
  let's face it, with all the blunders committed by "scientific" mds 
  over the years, i know a lot of people who hold your *scientific* 
  method in much lower esteem than they hold mine!
 
 gr>  as far as we know ayurveda = crystals = homeopathy = ron roth
 gr>  which may all equal placebo administered with appropriate
 gr>  trappings...
      
   sorry, but i'm not familiar or interested with what appears to be 
  'new age' medicine (ayurveda, crystals), with the exception of homeo-
  pathy, of which i took a course. but gordon, you already knew that -
  you just wanted to make my system look a bit more far out, right?
  
  i use homeopathy very little, since my cellular test (emr) is hard to
  beat for accuracy and minerals are more predictable, while homeopathy
  does have a problem with reliability, especially in acute conditions.
  an exception perhaps are homeopathic nosodes which act fairly quickly
  and are more dependable in certain viral or bacterial situations. 
 
 gr>  my colleagues and i spend hours debating study design
 gr>  and results, even of therapies currently accepted as "standard".
 gr>  as good (well, adequate) scientists, we are prepared, *if 
 gr>  presented with appropriate data*, to abandon our most deeply held 
 gr>  beliefs in favor of new ideas.
 
  i have met the challenges of hundreds of sceptics by verifying the
  accuracy of measuring their mineral status to their total satisfac-
  tion --- in other words everyone involved is happy!
  if you were to cook a meal, would you worry over whether everyone 
  in this world would find it to their liking, or only those that end 
  up eating it?
  since i have financed every research project that i have undertaken 
  entirely myself, i don't need to follow any of your rules or guide-
  lines to satisfy any aspects of a grant application, which you may 
  have to; neither am i concerned of whether or not my study designs 
  meet your or anyone else's criteria or acceptance. 
 
 gr>    sorry ron, if conviction were the ruler of truth, a flat earth would
 gr>  still be the center of the universe and epilepsy a curse of the gods.
                          
  i think there would be more justification for an uneducated person
  growing up in an uncivilized environment to believe in a flat earth,
  than for a civilized, well educated and scientifically trained mind
  to follow the doctrine of evolution.
  genetic engineering of course is now the final frontier to show god
  how it is (properly) done. now we've become capable of creating our
  own paradise and give disease (and god) the boot, right?
 
  but just before we get rid of him for good, perhaps he could leave us
  some pointers on how to solve a couple of tiny problems, such as war, 
  poverty, racism, crime, riots, substance abuse... and one last thing, 
  could he also give us a hint on how to control natural disasters, the
  weather, and last, but not least --- peace?
 
    --ron--
 ---
    rosereader 2.00  p003228:  the lab called: your brain is ready.
    rosemail 2.10 : usenet: rose media - hamilton (416) 575-5363
 