
 in article <19600@pitt.uucp> geb@cs.pitt.edu (gordon banks) writes:
 > keith is the only person i have ever heard of that keeps the weight
 > off without any conscious effort to control eating behavior.  ... most
 > of us have to diet a lot to keep from going back to morbid obesity.
 
 i attribute my success to several factors:
 
 very low fat.  except when someone else has cooked a meal for me,
 i only eat fruit, vegetables, and whole grain or bran cereals.  i
 estimate i only get about 5 to 10 percent of my calories from fat.
 
 very little sugar or salt.
 
 very high fiber.  most americans get about 10 grams.  25 to 35 are
 recommended.  i get between 50 and 150.  sometimes 200.  (i've heard
 of people taking fiber pills.  it seems unlikely that pills can
 contain enough fiber to make a difference.  it would be about as
 likely as someone getting fat by popping fat pills.  tablets are
 just too small, unless you snarf down hundreds of them daily.)
 
 my "clean your plate" conditioning works *for* me.  eating the last
 10% takes half my eating time, and gives satiety a chance to catch
 up, so i don't still feel hungry and go start eating something else.
 
 i don't eat when i'm not hungry (unless i'm sure i'll get hungry
 shortly, and eating won't be practical then).
 
 i bike to work, 22 miles a day, year round.  fast.  i also bike to
 stores, movies, and everywhere else, as i've never owned a car.
 i estimate this burns about 1000 calories a day.  it also helps
 build and maintain muscle mass, prevent insulin resistance (diabetes
 runs in my family), and increase my metabolism.  (even so, my
 metabolism is so low that when i'm at rest i'm most comfortable
 with a temperature in the 90s (f), and usually wear a sweater if
 it drops to 80.)  cycling also motivates me to avoid every excess
 ounce.  (cyclists routinely pay a premium for cycling products that
 weigh slightly less than others.  but it's easier and cheaper to trim
 weight from the rider than from the vehicle.)
 
 there's no question in my mind that my metabolism is radically
 different from that of most people who have never been fat.  fortunately,
 it isn't different in a way that precludes excellent health.
 
 obviously, i can't swear that every obese person who does what i've
 done will have the success i did.  but i've never yet heard of one who
 did try it and didn't succeed.
 
 > i think all of us cycle.  one's success depends on how large the
 > fluctuations in the cycle are.  some people can cycle only 5 pounds.
 
 i'm sure everyone's weight cycles, whether or not they've ever been fat.
 i usually eat extremely little salt.  when i do eat something salty,
 my weight can increase overnight by as much as ten pounds.  it comes
 off again over a week or two.
 -- 
 keith lynch, kfl@access.digex.com
 
 f p=2,3:2 s q=1 x "f f=3:2 q:f*f>p!'q  s q=p#f" w:q p,?$x\8+1*8
 