
 this will be the first of monthly postings of the newsletter of 
 the long island chapter of the transplant recipients 
 international organization (trio).  unfortunately, i was unable 
 to post it before the date of this month's meeting.  i'm 
 posting it anyway, and posting it world-wide instead of 
 regional, in the hopes that some of the information may be 
 useful or illustrative.  also, i hope it can be used as an 
 example and inspiration for the posting of other newsletters 
 and data related to organ transplantation and donation.  
 
 mike
 
 transplant recipients
 international organization
 long island chapter
 p.o. box 922
 huntington, ny 11743-0922		 newsletter
 516/421-3258
                                          april 1993 
                                          volume iv   no. 8
 
 
 next meeting
 
 
 the next meeting is wednesday april 14 at 8 pm at the knights 
 of columbus emerald manor, 517 uniondale avenue in uniondale.  
 our guest speaker will be dr. lewis teperman.  dr. teperman 
 trained in pittsburgh under dr. starzl and is now the assistant 
 director of the liver transplant program at new york university 
 medical center.  dr. teperman will discuss current trends in 
 transplantation and treatment and will answer questions.  he is 
 a long time friend of trio, surgeon to many of our members, and 
 always a gracious and delightful guest.   it is sure to be a 
 very informative, interesting and engaging evening.  our 
 hospitality committee,  bette and vito suglia and jim spence 
 will be well prepared, and at last the weather should be 
 cooperative. we hope to see a very large gathering to welcome 
 dr. teperman. 
 
           wednesday    april 14  k of c   uniondale
 
 
 last meeting
 
 it has been noted here before that the long island chapter of 
 trio has extraordinary power in predicting bad weather, being 
 able to forecast rain, sleet and snow fully a month in advance.  
 no tv weatherman can match us. this time we not only scored 
 again, but we were also able to disable the long island 
 railroad, making travel really difficult.  none the less, many 
 braved the snow and we had an interesting meeting and good 
 conversation.  our scheduled speaker, mrs. elizabeth linnehan, 
 a professional nutritionist, had a family emergency and was not 
 able to attend.  she hope she will be with us in the fall to 
 discuss diet and medications.  however,  ms. jennifer friedman, 
 an image consultant and sister of a liver transplant recipient 
 was kind enough to step in on very short notice.  ms. friedman 
 gave us a lot of good advice about choosing clothes and makeup, 
 (even a bit for men) to help us look well and healthy and to 
 minimize some of the cosmetic effects of some of the medicine 
 and drugs we take.  we are most grateful to jennifer and thank 
 her for an entertaining evening.
 
 
 
 annual meeting
 
 in addition to welcoming dr. teperman, the april meeting is 
 also the annual meeting of the chapter.  this is the official 
 notice of the meeting as required by our by-laws. the main 
 purpose of the meeting is to review the past year, solicit 
 member views and ideas for better ways to meet their needs, and 
 to elect members of the board of directors for the coming two 
 year term.  the nominating committee has prepared the following 
 slate for the board.
 
          anne (liver recipient) and don treffeisen
          robert (heart recipient) and eulene smith
          vito (kidney recipient) and bette suglia
          kay grenzig (liver recipient)
          jan schichtel (kidney recipient)
          larry juliano (kidney recipient)
          david bekofsky (director public education litp)
 
 those remaining on the board for another year are:
 
          robert carroll (liver, kidney & pancreas recipient)
          jerry (kidney recipient) and jeanne eichhorn
          ron (kidney donor) and marie healy
          peter smith (bone marrow recipient)
          patricia ann yankus (kidney and pancreas recipient)
          walter ruzak (kidney recipient)
 
 this may seem to be a big board, but many hands make light work 
 and with our various medical uncertainties, it is good to have 
 backups for all the jobs on the board.  therefore, in addition 
 to the slate being presented for voting, nominations will also 
 be accepted from the floor.  there is no set number of board 
 members and there is plenty of work. 
 
 in addition,  brief treasurer's and membership reports will be 
 given and the floor will be open for any new business, 
 suggestions, or comments anyone would like to bring up.
 
 we will keep the formal meeting short so that we can spend the 
 majority of the time with dr. teperman.
 
 future meetings
 
 remember the scheduled guests for the rest of the year.  
 
      may  12      dr. peter shaprio, chief of psychiatry
                   columbia presbyterian medical center
 
      june  9      dr. felix rappaport, director of the stony 
                   brook kidney transplant program. 
 
 plan on being with us the second wednesday of each month.
 
 notdaw
 
 the week of april 18-24 is national organ and tissue donor 
 awareness week. notdaw. while we are planning news releases, 
 speaking engagements and meetings with supervisors gullata and 
 gaffney, we have decided not to have our softball game   
 because of two year's experience with miserable weather. 
 
 we all can help spread the word on donor awareness, however. we 
 have found it effective to ask your pastor, or rabbi to publish 
 a letter or announcement in the parish bulletin, allow you to 
 address the congregation, or include mention of the gift of 
 life in his sermon.  attached to this newsletter is a sample 
 letter and fact sheet you can use.   thank you.
 
 dr. starzl to be honored 
 
 the long island chapter of the american liver foundation will 
 hold its annual auction and dinner dance on may 7th at the 
 fountainbleu  on jericho turnpike in jericho.  dr. thomas 
 starzl will be the honored guest.  tickets are $50 person and 
 are going fast.  if you'd like to meet dr. starzl,  call anne 
 treffeisen at (516) 421-3258 for details.
 
 membership news 
 
 congratulations to al reese.  al received his heart transplant 
 in pittsburgh after waiting 3 1/2 years.  he is home and doing 
 well after only 12 days in hospital.
 
 arthur michaels, liver recipient, is planning to run the boston 
 marathon in april. what fantastic proof that transplantation 
 works!  we hope the national press notices. 
      
 bob mccormack, after a persistent bout with infection, had his 
 transplanted kidney removed.  he is home now, back on dialysis 
 and feeling better.  
 
 nicole healy, kidney recipient and daughter of ron and marie, 
 spent the past several weeks in hospital in miami with problems 
 encountered on vacation.  marie has been with her in florida.  
 they are back in new york where nicole's treatment will 
 continue.  we wish nicole a speedy recovery. 
 
 kay grenzig, liver recipient, is mending now after a bad fall 
 that resulted in a broken arm and a broken leg. kay is a 
 candidate for the board so we need her well soon.
  
 and best wishes to all coming out of the flu. it was a tough 
 winter for many, but the tulips are just under the snow.
 
 see you......wednesday   april 14  8 pm   k of c uniondale            
                    dr. lewis teperman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 