
 [newsgroups: m.h.a added, followups set to most appropriate groups.]
 
 in <1993apr19.205615.1013@unlv.edu> todamhyp@charles.unlv.edu (brian m.
 huey) writes:
 
 >i am looking for any information/supplies that will allow
 >do-it-yourselfers to take krillean pictures.
 
 (it's "kirlian".  "krillean" pictures are portraits of tiny shrimp. :)
 
 [...]
 
 >one might extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object
 >within the universe (as we know it) has its own energy signature.
 
 i think it's safe to say that anything that's not at 0 degrees kelvin
 will have its own "energy signature" -- the interesting questions are
 what kind of energy, and what it signifies.
 
 i'd check places like edmund scientific (are they still in business?) --
 or i wonder if you can find ex-soviet union equipment for sale somewhere
 in the relcom.* hierarchy.
 
 some expansion on kirlian photography:
 
 from the credulous side: [stanway, andrew, _alternative medicine: a guide
 to natural therapies_, isbn 0-14-008561-0, new york: viking penguin, 1986,
 p211, p188.  a not-overly critical but still useful overview of 32
 alternative health therapies.]
 
   ...the russian engineer semyon kirlian and his wife valentina during the
   1950s.  using alternating currents of high frequency to 'illuminate'
   their subjects, they photographed them.  they found that if an object
   was a good conductor (such as a metal) the picture showed only its
   surface, while the pictures of poor conductors showed the inner
   structure of the object even if it were optically opaque.  they found
   too that these high frequency pictures could distinguish between dead
   and living objects.  dead ones had a constant outline whilst living ones
   were subject to changes.  the object's life activity was also visible in
   highly variable colour patterns.
 
   high frequency photography has now been practised for twenty years in
   the soviet union but only a few people in the west have taken it up
   seriously.  professor douglas dean in new york and professor philips at
   washington university in st louis have produced kirlian photographs and
   others have been produced in brazil, austria and germany.
 
   using kirlian photography it is possible to show an aura around people's
   fingers, notably around those of healers who are concentrating on
   healing someone.  normally, blue and white rays emanate from the fingers
   but, when a subject becomes angry or excited, the aura turns red and
   spotty.  the soviets are now using kirlian photography to diagnose
   diseases which cannot be diagnosed by any other method.  they argue that
   in most illnesses there is a preclinical stage during which the person
   isn't actually ill but is about to be.  they claim to be able to
   foretell a disease by photographing its preclinical phase.
 
   but the most exciting phenomenon illustrated by kirlian photography is
   the phantom effect.  during high frequency photography of a leaf from
   which a part had been cut, the photograph gave a complete picture of the
   leaf with the removed part showing up faintly.  this is extremely
   important because it backs up the experiences of psychics who can 'see'
   the legs of amputees as if they were still there.  the important thing
   about the kirlian phantoms though is that the electromagnetic pattern
   can't possibly represent a secondary phenomenon -- or the field would
   vanish when the piece of leaf or leg vanished.  the energy grid
   contained in a living object must therefore be far more significant than
   the actual object itself.
 
   [...]
 
   kirlian photography has shown how water mentally 'charged' by a healer
   has a much richer energy field around it than ordinary water...
 
 
 from the incredulous side: [macrobert, alan, "reality shopping; a
 consumer's guide to new age hokum.", _whole earth review_, autumn 1986,
 vnon4 p4(11).  an excellent article providing common-sense guidelines for
 evaluating paranormal claims, and some of the author's favorite examples
 of hokum.]
 
   the crank usually works in isolation from everyone else in his field of
   study, making grand discoveries in his basement.  many paranormal
   movements can be traced back to such people -- kirlian photography, for
   instance.  if you pump high-voltage electricity into anything it will
   emit glowing sparks, common knowledge to electrical workers and
   hobbyists for a century.  it took a lone basement crank to declare that
   the sparks represent some sort of spiritual aura.  in fact, kirlian
   photography was subjected to rigorous testing by physicists john o.
   pehek, harry j. kyler, and david l. faust, who reported their findings
   in the october 15, 1976, issue of science.  their conclusion: the
   variations observed in kirlian photographs are due solely to moisture on
   the surface of the body and not to mysterious "auras" or even
   necessarily to changes in mood or mental state.  nevertheless,
   television shows, magazines, and books (many by famous
   parapsychologists) continue to promote kirlian photography as proof of
   the unknown.
 
 -- 
 peter kaminski
 kaminski@netcom.com
 