
 
 we will be holding a bake and craft sale at communiversity in princeton on  
 nassau street, saturday april 24th 12-4 p.m. to benefit the recurrent  
 respiratory papillomatosis foundation, a nonprofit foundation established to  
 encourage research toward a cure for recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.  our  
 three year old daughter suffers from this disease.  below is a press release  
 that appeared in local newspapers.  hope you can join us.
 
 
 on saturday, april 24 as part of communiversity in princeton, a local family  
 will be having a bake and craft sale to raise money for and create public  
 awareness about a rare disease called recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.
 
 bill and marlene stern's daughter lindsay is afflicted with this disease  
 characterized by tumors attacking the inside of the larynx, vocal cords and  
 trachea.  caused by a virus, the tumors grow, block the air passages and would  
 lead to death from suffocation without continual surgery to remove the growths.   
 three year old lindsay has undergone 11 operations thus far since her diagnosis  
 last year and faces the prospect of over a hundred operations throughout her  
 lifetime.  
 
 even though the disease is hardly a household word, it has affected the lives  
 of enough people to inspire the formation of the recurrent respiratory  
 papillomatosis foundation,  a non-profit foundation whose goals are to provide  
 support for patients and families by networking patients and publishing a  
 newsletter, enhance  awareness of rrp at the local and national level, and aid  
 in the prevention, cure, and treatment.
 
 since medical researchers know that the virus causing the disease is similar to  
 those viruses causing warts, they feel a cure would be within reach if money  
 were available for research.  because rrp is rare, it not only gets scant  
 attention but also paltry funds to search for a cure.  part of the rrp  
 foundation's mission is to change that. 
 
 anyone interested in contributing items to the bake and craft sale, please call  
 marlene or bill at 609-890-0502.  monetary donations can be made at the  
 foundation's booth during communiversity, april 24th, 12 to 4 p.m., in downtown  
 princeton, or sent directly to:
 
 			the recurrent respiratory foundation
 	                50 wesleyan drive
 	                hamilton sq., nj  08690.
 thanks   mstern@lindsay.princeton.edu
 