
 in-reply-to: todamhyp@charles.unlv.edu's message of mon, 19 apr 93 20:56:15 gmt
 newsgroups: sci.energy,sci.image.processing,sci.anthropology,alt.sci.physics.new-theories,sci.skeptic,sci.med,alt.alien.visitors
 subject: re: krillean photography
 references: <1993apr19.205615.1013@unlv.edu>
 distribution: 
 --text follows this line--
 todamhyp@charles.unlv.edu (brian m. huey) writes:
 
 	   i am looking for any information/supplies that will allow
    do-it-yourselfers to take krillean pictures. i'm thinking
    that education suppliers for schools might have a appartus for
    sale, but i don't know any of the companies. any info is greatly
    appreciated.
 	   in case you don't know, krillean photography, to the best of my
    knowledge, involves taking pictures of an (most of the time) organic
    object between charged plates. the picture will show energy patterns
    or spikes around the object photographed, and depending on what type
    of object it is, the spikes or energy patterns will vary. one might
    extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within
    the universe (as we know it) has its own energy signature.
 
 there have been a number of scientific papers (in peer-reviewed journals)
 published about kirlian photography in the early 1970s.  sorry i can't be
 more specific but it is a long time since i read them.  they would describe
 what is needed and how to set up the apparatus.  
 
 these papers demonstrate that the auras obtained by kirlian photography can
 be completely explained by the effect of the electric currents used on the
 moisture in the object being photographed.  it has nothing to do with the
 "energy signature" of organic objects.
 
 i did a science project on kirlian photography when i was in high school.
 i was able to obtain wonderful auras from rocks and pebbles and the like by
 first dunking them in water.
 
 barbara
 --
 
 
 
 --
 bls101@syseng.anu.edu.au
 "i generally avoid temptation unless i can't resist it."                
  - mae west 
 