
    someone wrote in expressing concern about getting aids from acupuncture
    needles.....
 
 unless your friend is sharing fluids with their acupuncturist who               
 themselves has aids..it is unlikely (not impossible) they will get aids         
 from acupuncture needles. generally, even if accidently inoculated, the normal
 immune response should be enough to effectively handle the minimal contaminant 
 involved with acupuncture needle insertion. 
 
 most acupuncturists use disposable needles...use once and throw away. they      
 do this because you are not the only one concerned about transmission of 
 diseases via this route...so it's good business to advertise "disposable needlesused here." these needles tend to be of a lower quality however, 
 being poorly manufactured and too "sharp" in my opinion. they tend to snag bloodvessels on insertion compared to higher quality needles.                                                                        
 if i choose to use acupuncture for a given complaint, that patient will get 
 their own set of new needles which are sterilized between treatments.      
 the risk here for hepatitis, hiv, etc. transmission is that i could mistakenly 
 use an infected persons needles accidently on the wrong              
 patient...but clear labelling and paying attention all but eliminates 
 this risk. better quality needles tend to "slide" past vessels and            
 nerves avoiding unpleasant painful snags..and hematomas...so i use them.                        
 acupuncture needles come in many lengths and thicknesses...but they are all 
 solid when compared to their injection-style cousins. in china, herbal solutionsand western pharmaceuticals are occasionally injected into 
 meridian points purported to have tcm physiologic effects and so require 
 the same hollow needles used for injecting fluid medicine. this means...thinkingtiny...that a samll amount of tissue, the diameter of the needle bore, will be 
 injected into the body as it would  be in a typical "shot." when the skin is 
 puntured. on the other hand when the solid 
 acupuncture needle is inserted, the skin tends to "squeeze" the needle 
 from the tip to the level of insertion such that any 'cooties' that 
 haven't been schmeared away with alcohol before insertion, tend to remain 
 on the surface of the skin minimizing invasion from the exterior. 
 
 of course in tcm...the body's exterior is protected by the wei (protective) qi..so infection is unlikely....or in other words...there is a normal inflammatory 
 and immune response that accompanies tissue damage incurred at the puncture 
 site.
 
 
 while i'm fairly certain your friend will not have a transferable disease 
 transmitted to them via acupuncture needle insertion, i would like to know for 
 what complaint they have consulted the acupuncturist...not to know  if it would be harmful.. but to know if it would be helpful. 
 
 john badanes, dc, ca
 romdas@uclink.berkeley.edu
                                                                                                     
   
 