
 ------------- cut here -----------------
 
 
 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 13
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 
 
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                         food & drug administration news
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 
               fda approves depo provera, injectable contraceptive
                       p92-31 food and drug administration
               for immediate release susan cruzan - (301) 443-3285
 
 
 the food and drug administration today announced the approval of depo provera, 
 an injectable contraceptive drug. 
 
 the drug, which contains a synthetic hormone similar to the natural hormone 
 progesterone, protects women from pregnancy for three months per injection. 
 the hormone is injected into the muscle of the arm or buttock where it is 
 released into the bloodstream to prevent pregnancy. it is more than 99 percent 
 effective.
 
 "this drug presents another long-term, effective option for women to prevent 
 pregnancy," said fda commissioner david a. kessler, m.d. "as an injectable, 
 given once every three months, depo provera eliminates problems related to 
 missing a daily dose."
 
 depo provera is available in 150 mg. single dose vials from doctors and 
 clinics and must be given on a regular basis to maintain contraceptive 
 protection. if a patient decides to become pregnant, she discontinues the 
 injections.
 
 as with any such products, fda advises patients to discuss the benefits and 
 risks of depo provera with their doctor or other health care professional 
 before making a decision to use it.
 
 depo provera's effectiveness as a contraceptive was established in extensive 
 studies by the manufacturer, the world health organization and health agencies 
 in other countries. u.s. clinical trials, begun in 1963, also found depo 
 provera effective as an injectable contraceptive.
 
 the most common side effects are menstrual irregularities and weight gain. in 
 addition, some patients may experience headache, nervousness, abdominal pain, 
 dizziness, weakness or fatigue. the drug should not be used in women who have 
 acute liver disease, unexplained vaginal bleeding, breast cancer or blood 
 clots in the legs, lungs or eyes.
 
 the labeling advises doctors to rule out pregnancy before prescribing the 
 drug, due to concerns about low birth weight in babies exposed to the drug. 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 14
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 recent data have also demonstrated that long-term use may contribute to 
 osteoporosis. the manufacturer will conduct additional research to study this 
 potential effect.
 
 depo provera was developed in the 1960s and has been approved for 
 contraception in many other countries. the upjohn company of kalamazoo, mich., 
 which will market the drug under the name, depo provera contraceptive 
 injection, first submitted it for approval in the united states in the 1970s. 
 at that time, animal studies raised questions about its potential to cause 
 breast cancer. worldwide studies have since found the overall risk of cancer, 
 including breast cancer in humans, to be minimal if any.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 15
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
        new rules speed approval of drugs for life-threatening illnesses
                       p92-37 food and drug administration
                         monica revelle - (301) 443-4177
 
 the food and drug administration today announced that it will soon publish new 
 rules to shed the approval of drugs for patients with serious or life-
 threatening illnesses, such as aids, cancer and alzheimer's disease. 
 
 "these final rules will help patients who are suffering the most serious 
 illnesses to get access to new drugs months or even years earlier than would 
 otherwise be possible," said hhs secretary louis w. sullivan, m.d. "the effort 
 to accelerate fda review for these drugs has been a long-term commitment and 
 indeed a hallmark of this administration." 
 
 these rules establish procedures for the food and drug administration to 
 approve a drug based on "surrogate endpoints" or markers. they apply when the 
 drug provides a meaningful benefit over currently available therapies. such 
 endpoints would include laboratory tests or physical signs that do not in 
 themselves constitute a clinical effect but that are judged by qualified 
 scientists to be likely to correspond to real benefits to the patient. 
 
 use of surrogate endpoints for measurement of drug efficacy permits approval 
 earlier than if traditional endpoints -- such as relief of disease symptoms or 
 prevention of disability and death from the disease -- are used. 
 
 the new rules provide for therapies to be approved as soon as safety and 
 effectiveness, based on surrogate endpoints, can be reasonably established. 
 the drug's sponsor will be required to agree to continue or conduct 
 postmarketing human studies to confirm that the drug's effect on the surrogate 
 endpoint is an indicator of its clinical effectiveness. 
 
 one new drug -- zalcitabine (also called ddc) -- was approved june 19, using a 
 model of this process, for treating the human immunodeficiency virus, hiv, the 
 cause of aids. 
 
 accelerated approval can also be used, if necessary, when fda determines that 
 a drug, judged to be effective for the treatment of a disease, can be used 
 safely only under a restricted distribution plan. 
 
 "the new rules will help streamline the drug development and review process 
 without sacrificing goad science and rigorous fda oversight," said fda 
 commissioner david a. kessler, m.d. "while drug approval will be accomplished 
 faster, these drugs and biological products must still meet safety and 
 effectiveness standards required by law." 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 16
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 the new procedures also allow for a streamlined withdrawal process if the 
 postmarketing studies do not verify the drug's clinical benefit, if there is 
 new evidence that the drug product is not shown to be safe and effective, or 
 if other specified circumstances arise that necessitate expeditious withdrawal 
 of the drug or biologic.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 17
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 
 
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                    articles
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 
                research shows promise for preventing or slowing
                        blindness due to retinal disease
 
                    national retinitis pigmentosa foundation
 
         neutrophilic factors rescue photoreceptor cells in animal tests
 
      baltimore, md - researchers at the university of california san francisco 
 and regeneron pharmaceuticals, inc. [nasdaq: regn] have discovered that 
 certain naturally occurring substances known as neurotrophic factors can 
 prevent the degeneration of light-sensing cells in the retina of the eye. the 
 degeneration of these cells, known as photoreceptors, is a major cause of 
 visual impairment 
      this research, published to in the december issue of the proceedings of 
 the national academy of science (pnas), holds promise for people who may lose 
 their sight due to progressive retinal degeneration -- currently, no drug 
 treatment for retinal degeneration exists. it is estimated that 2.5 million 
 americans have severe vision loss due to age-related macular degeneration and 
 100,000 americans are affected by retinitis pigmentosus, a hereditary disease 
 that causes blindness. in addition, each year more than 15,000 people undergo 
 surgical procedures to repair retinal detachments and other retinal traumas. 
      the research was funded in part by the rp (retinitis pigmentosa) 
 foundation fighting blindness, regeneron pharmaceuticals and the national eye 
 institute. it was conducted by drs. matthew m. lavail, kazuhiko unoki, douglas 
 yasurnura, michael t. matthes and roy h. steinberg at ucsf, arld dr. c;eorge 
 yancoooulos, regeneron's vice president for discovery. regeneron holds an 
 exclusive license for this research from ucsf.
      in the research described in the pnas , a light-damage model was used to 
 assess the survival-promoting activity of a number of naturally occurring 
 substances. experimental rats were exposed to constant light for one week. 
 eyes that had not been treated with an effective factor lost most of their 
 photoreceptor cells -- the rods and cones of the retina -- after light 
 exposure. brain derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) and ciliary neurotrophic 
 factor (cntf) were particularly effective in this model without causing 
 unwanted side effects; other factors such as nerve growth factor (ngf) and 
 insulin-like growth factor (igf-1) were not effective in these experiments. 
      discussing the research, dr. jesse m. cedarbaum, regeneron's director of 
 clinical research, said, "bdnf's ability to rescue neurons in the retina that 
 have been damaged by light exposure may hold promise for the treatment of age-
 related macular degeneration, one of the leading causes of vision impairment, 
 and for retinal detachment. following detachment, permanent vision loss may 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 18
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 result frorn the death of detached retinal cells. it is possible that bdnf 
 could play a role in rescuing those cells once the retina has been reattached 
 surgically." 
      "retinitis pigmentosa is a slowly progressing disease that causes the 
 retina to degenerate over a period of years or even decades. vision decreases 
 to a small tunnel of sight and can result in total blindness. it is our hope 
 that research on growth factors will provide a means to slow the progression 
 and preserve useful vision throughout life," stated jeanette s. felix, ph.d., 
 director of science for the rp foundation fighting blindness. 
      in addition to the work described , regeneron is developing bdnf in 
 conjunction with aingen inc. [nasdaq:amgn] as a possible treatment for 
 peripheral neuropathies associated with diabetes and cancer chemotherapy, 
 motor neuron diseases, parkinson's disease, and alzheimer's disease. by 
 itself, regeneron is testing cntf in patients with arnyotrophic lateral 
 sclerosis (commonly known as lou gehrig's disease). 
      regeneron pharlnaceuticals, inc., based in tarrytown, new york, is a 
 leader in the discovery and development of biotechnology-based compounds for 
 the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, peripheral neuropathies and nerve 
 injuries, which affect more than seven million americans. drs. lavail and 
 steinberg of ucsf are consultants to regeneron.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 19
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
                  affluent diet increases risk of heart disease
 
                           research resources reporter
                            written by mary weideman
                                  nov/dec 1992
                          national institutes of health
 
 
      high-fat, high-calorie diets rapidly increase risk factors for coronary 
 heart disease in native populations of developing countries that have 
 traditionally consumed diets low in fat.  these findings, according to 
 investigators at the oregon health sciences university in portland, have 
 serious implications for public health in both industrialized and developing 
 countries. 
      "this study demonstrates why we can develop coronary heart disease and 
 have higher blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels.  it shows also the 
 importance of diet and particularly the potential of the diet to increase body 
 weight, thereby leading to a whole host of other health problems in developing 
 countries and affluent nations as well," explains principal investigator dr. 
 william e. connor, head of the section of clinical nutrition and lipid 
 metabolism at oregon health sciences university. 
      over the past 25 years dr. connor and his team have characterized the 
 food and nutrient intakes of the tara humara indians in mexico, while 
 simultaneously documenting various aspects of tarahumara lipid metabolism.  
 these native mexicans number approximately 50,000 and reside in the sierra 
 madre occidental mountains in the state of chihuahua.  the tarahumaras have 
 coupled an agrarian diet to endurance racing.  probably as a result, coronary 
 heart disease, which is so prevalent in western industrialized nations, is 
 virtually non existent in their culture.  loosely translated, the name 
 tarahumara means "fleet of foot," reflecting a tribal passion for betting on 
 "kickball" races, in which participants run distances of 100 miles or more 
 while kicking a machete-carved wooden ball.
      the typical tarahumara diet consists primarily of pinto beans, tortillas, 
 and pinole, a drink made of ground roasted corn mixed with cold water, 
 together with squash and gath ered fruits and vegetables.  the tara humaras 
 also eat small amounts of game, fish, and eggs.  their food contains 
 approximately 12 percent of total calories as fat of which the majority (69 
 percent) is of vegetable origin.  dietician martha mcmurry, a coinvestigator 
 in the study, describes their diet as simple and very rich in nutrients while 
 low in cholesterol and fat.
      the tarahumaras have average plasma cholesterol levels of 121 mg/ dl, 
 low-density lipoprotein (ldl)-cholesterol levels of 72 mg/dl, and high-density 
 lipoprotein (hdl)-cholesterol levels of 32 to 42 mg/dl.  all of those values 
 are in the good, low-risk range, according to the researchers.  elevated 
 cholesterol and ldl-cholesterol levels are considered risk factors for heart 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 20
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 disease.  hdl-cholesterol is considered beneficial.  in previous studies the 
 tarahumaras had been found to be at low risk for cardiac disease, although 
 able to respond to high-cholesterol diets with elevations in total and ldl-
 cholesterol. 
      clinical research center dietitian mcmurry and coinvestigator maria 
 teresa cerqueira established a metabolic unit in a jesuit mission school 
 building near a community hospital in the small village of sisoguichi.  food 
 was weighed, cooked, and fed to the study participants under the 
 investigators' direct supervision, ensuring that subjects ate only food 
 stipulated by the research protocol.  fasting blood was drawn twice weekly, 
 and plasma samples were frozen and shipped to dr. connors laboratory for 
 cholesterol, triglyceride, and lipoprotein analyses.  regular measurements 
 included participant body weight, height, and triceps skin fold thickness.  
 thirteen tarahumaras, five women and eight men, including one adolescent, were 
 fed their native diet for 1 week, followed by 5 weeks of an "affluent" diet. 
      "in this study we went up to a concentration of dietary fat that was 40 
 percent of total calories.  this is the prototype of the holiday diet that 
 many americans consume a diet high in fat, sugar, and cholesterol, low in 
 fiber," elaborates dr. conners. such dietary characteristics are reflected in 
 the cholesterol-saturation index, or csi, recently devised research dietitian 
 sonja conner working with dr. connor.  "the csi is a single number that 
 incorporates both the amount of cholesterol and the amount of saturated fat in 
 the diet.  csi indicates the diet's potential to elevate the cholesterol 
 level, particularly the ldl," dr. connor explains.  the tarahumaran diet 
 averages a very low csi of 20; dr. connor's "affluent" diet used in the study 
 ranks a csi of 149. 
      the experimental design of this study reflects the importance of 
 establishing baseline plasma lipid levels, typical of the native diet, before 
 exposing subjects to the experimental diet.  the standard curve relating 
 dietary food intake to plasma cholesterol demonstrates a leveling off, or 
 plateau, for consumption of large amounts of fat.  changes in dietary fat 
 and/or cholesterol in this range have little effect on plasma levels.  "you 
 must have the baseline diet almost free of the variables you are going to put 
 into the experimental diet.  the framingham study, for example, did not 
 discriminate on the basis of diet between individuals who got heart disease 
 because the diet was already high in fat.  all subjects were already eating on 
 a plateau," dr. connor says. 
      after 5 weeks of consuming the "affluent" diet, the subjects' mean plasma 
 cholesterol levels had in creased by 31 percent, primarily in the ldl 
 fraction, which rose 39 percent.  hdl-cholesterol increased by 31 per cent, 
 and ldl to hdl ratios changed therefore very little.  plasma triglyceride 
 levels increased by 18 percent, and subjects averaged an 8-pound gain in 
 weight.  according to dr. connor, lipid changes occurred surprisingly soon, 
 yielding nearly the same results after 7 days of affluent diet as after 35 
 days. 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 21
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
      the increase in hdl carries broad dietary implications for industrialized 
 nations.  "we think hdl-cholesterol increased because we increased the amount 
 of dietary fat over the fat content used in the previous tarahumara metabolic 
 study.  in that study we saw no change in hdl levels after raising the dietary 
 cholesterol but keeping the fat relatively consistent with native consumption.  
 in the present study we increased fat intake to 40 percent of the total 
 calories.  we reached the conclusion in the tarahumara study that hdl reflects 
 the amount of dietary fat in general and not the amount of dietary 
 cholesterol.  hdl must increase to help metabolize the fat, and it increased 
 quite a bit in this study," dr. connor explains.
      low hdl in the tarahumarans is not typically an important predictor of 
 coronary heart disease because they do not normally consume large amounts of 
 fat or cholesterol.  hdl remains an important predictor to americans because 
 of their usual high fat intake. 
      dr. connor recommends a diet for americans that contains less than 20 
 percent of total calories as fat, less than 100 mg of cholesterol, and a csi 
 around 20, varying in accordance with caloric needs.  such a diet is low in 
 meat and dairy fat, high in fiber.  dr. connor also comments on recent 
 suggestions that americans adopt a "mediterranean-style" diet.  "the original 
 mediterranean diet, in its pristine state, consisted of a very low intake of 
 fat and very few animal and dairy products.  we are already eating a lot of 
 meat and dairy products.  simply to continue that pattern while switching to 
 olive oil is not going to help the situation." 
      the world health organization (who) is focusing much attention on the 
 emergence of diseases such as coronary heart disease in nations and societies 
 undergoing technological development.  dr. connor says that coronary heart 
 disease starts with a given society's elite, who typically eat a different 
 diet than the average citizen.  "if the pattern of afluence increases, the 
 entire population will have have a higher incidence of coronary heart disease, 
 which places a termendous health care burden on a society.  who would like the 
 developing countries to prevent coronary heart disease, so they can 
 concentrate on other aspects of their economic development and on public 
 health measures to improve general well-being, rather than paying for 
 unnecessary, expensive medical technology," dr. connors says.
      "the overall implication of this study is that humans can readily move 
 their plasma lipids and lipoprotein values into a high-risk range within a 
 very short time by an affluent, excessive diet.  the present rate of coronary 
 heart disease in the united states is 30 percent less than it was 20 years 
 ago, so a lot has been accomplished.  we are changing rapidly," he concludes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 22
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
 
 
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                              general announcments
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 
         publications for health professionals available from nci (1/93)
 
 unless otherwise noted, the following materials are provided free of charge by 
 calling the nci's publication ordering service, 1-800-4-cancer.  because 
 federal government publications are not subject to copyright restriction, you 
 are free to photocopy nci material. 
  
  
 general information
  
  
      anticancer drug information sheets in spanish/english.  two-
      sided fact sheets (in english and spanish) provide
      information about side effects of common drugs used to treat
      cancer, their proper usage, and precautions for patients.
      the fact sheets were prepared by the united states
      pharmacopeial convention, inc., for distribution by the
      national cancer institute.  single sets only may be ordered.
  
      cancer rates and risks, 3rd edition (85-691).  this book is
      a compact guide to statistics, risk factors, and risks for
      major cancer sites.  it includes charts and graphs showing
      incidence, mortality, and survival worldwide and in the
      united states.  it also contains a section on the costs of
      cancer. 136 pages.
  
      diet, nutrition & cancer prevention: a guide to food choices
      (87-2778).  this booklet describes what is now known about
      diet, nutrition, and cancer prevention.  it provides
      information about foods that contain components like fiber,
      fat, and vitamins that may affect a person's risk of getting
      certain cancers.  it suggests ways to use that information
      to select from a broad variety of foods--choosing more of
      some foods and less of others. includes recipes and sample
      menus.  39 pages.
  
      national cancer institute fact book.  this book presents
      general information about the national cancer institute
      including budget data, grants and contracts, and historical
      information.
  
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 23
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
      national cancer institute grants process (91-1222) (revised
      3/90).  this booklet describes general nci grant award
      procedures; includes chapters on eligibility, preparation of
      grant application, peer review, eligible costs, and post-
      award activities.  62 pages.
  
      physician to physician: perspective on clinical trials. this
      15-minute videocassette discusses why and how to enter
      patients on clinical trials.  it was produced in
      collaboration with the american college of surgeons
      commission on cancer.
  
  
      students with cancer: a resource for the educator (91-2086).
      (revised 4/87) this booklet is designed for teachers who
      have students with cancer in their classrooms or schools. it
      includes an explanation of cancer, its treatment and
      effects, and guidelines for the young person's re-entry to
      school and for dealing with terminally ill students.
      bibliographies are included for both educators and young
      people.  22 pages.
  
      understanding the immune system (92-529). this booklet
      describes the complex network of specialized cells and
      organs that make up the human immune system. it explains how
      the system works to fight off disease caused by invading
      agents such as bacteria and viruses, and how it sometimes
      malfunctions, resulting in a variety of diseases from
      allergies, to arthritis, to cancer. it was developed by the
      national institute of allergy and infectious diseases and
      printed by the national cancer institute.  this booklet
      presents college level instruction in immunology.  it is
      appropriate for nursing or pharmacology students and for
      persons receiving college training in other areas within the
      health professions.  36 pages.
  
  
 materials to help stop tobacco use
  
      chew or snuff educator package (91-2976).  each package
      contains:
  
           ten copies of chew or snuff is real bad stuff, a
           brochure designed for seventh and eighth graders that
           describes the health and social effects of using
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 24
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
           smokeless tobacco products.  when fully opened, the
           brochure can be used as a poster.
  
           one copy of chew or snuff is real bad stuff:  a guide
           to make young people aware of the dangers of using
           smokeless tobacco.  this booklet is a lesson plan for
           teachers.  it contains facts about smokeless tobacco,
           suggested classroom activities, and selected
           educational resources.
  
      how to help your patients stop smoking: a national cancer
      institute manual for physicians (92-3064).  this is a step-
      by-step handbook for instituting smoking cessation
      techniques in medical practices.  the manual, with resource
      lists and tear-out materials, is based on the results of nci
      clinical trials.  75 pages.
  
      how to help your patients stop using tobacco: a national
      cancer institute manual for the oral health team (91-3191).
      this is a handbook for dentists, dental hygienists, and
      dental assistants.  it complements the physicians' manual
      and includes additional information on smoking prevention
      and on smokeless tobacco use.  58 pages.
  
      pharmacists helping smokers quit kit.  a packet of materials
      to help pharmacists encourage their smoking patients to
      quit.  contains a pharmacist's guide and self-help materials
      for 25 patients.
  
      school programs to prevent smoking: the national cancer
      institute guide to strategies that succeed (90-500).  this
      guide outlines eight essential elements of a successful
      school-based smoking prevention program based on nci
      research.  it includes a list of available curriculum
      resources and selected references.  24 pages.
  
  
      self-guided strategies for smoking cessation: a program
      planner's guide (91-3104). this booklet outlines key
      characteristics of successful self-help materials and
      programs based on nci collaborative research.  it lists
      additional resources and references. 36 pages.
  
  
      smoking policy: questions and answers. these ten fact sheets
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 25
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
      provide basic information about the establishment of
      worksite smoking policies. topics range from the health
      effects of environmental tobacco smoke to legal issues
      concerning policy implementation.
  
      strategies to control tobacco use in the united states:  a
      blueprint for public health action in the 1990s (92-3316:
      smoking and control monograph no. 1).  this volume provides
      a summary of what has been learned from 40 years of a public
      health effort against smoking, from the early trial-and-
      error health information campaigns of the 1960s to the nci's
      science-based project, american stop smoking intervention
      study for cancer prevention, which began in 1991.  it offers
      reasons why comprehensive smoking control strategies are now
      needed to address the smoker's total environment and to
      reduce smoking prevalence significantly over the next
      decade.
  
  
 materials for outreach programs
  
      cancer prevention and early detection:  community outreach
      programs for health professionals
  
         three kits are available for community program planners
         and health professionals to set up local cancer
         prevention and early detection education projects:
  
            do the right thing. . . get a new attitude about
            cancer community outreach program.  this community
            outreach kit targets black american audiences.  it
            contains materials to help health professionals
            conduct community education programs for black
            audiences.  the kit emphasizes the early detection of
            breast cancer by mammography and of cervical cancer by
            the pap test.  it also discusses smoking and
            nutrition.  the kit includes helpful program guidance,
            facts, news articles, visuals, and brochures.
  
            hagalo hoy community outreach program.  this community
            outreach kit targets hispanic audiences.  it contains
            bilingual and spanish language materials to help
            health professionals conduct community education
            programs.  the materials educate hispanic audiences
            about early detection of breast cancer by mammography
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 26
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
            and of cervical cancer by pap tests.  the kit also
            discusses smoking and related issues.  the kit
            includes helpful guidance, facts, news articles,
            visuals and brochures.
  
            once a year..for a lifetime community outreach
            mammography program.  this community outreach kit
            targets all women age 40 or over.  it supplies
            community program planners and health professionals
            with planning guidance, facts about mammography, news
            articles, visuals and brochures.
  
  
      making health communication programs work: a planner's guide
      (92-1493).  this handbook presents key principles and steps
      in developing and evaluating health communications programs
      for the public, patients, and health professionals.  it
      expands upon and replaces "pretesting in health
      communications" and "making psas work." 131 pages.
  
      support material for community outreach programs
  
      the video and slide presentations listed below support the
      mammography outreach programs.
  
         once a year...for a lifetime videotape.  this 5-minute
         vhs videotape uses a dramatic format to highlight the
         important facts about the early detection of breast
         cancer by mammography.
  
         una vez al ano...para toda una vida videotape.  this 27-
         minute spanish videotape informs spanish-speaking women
         of the need for medical screening, particularly
         mammography.  it explains commonly misunderstood facts
         about breast cancer and early detection.  the program, in
         a dramatic format, features edward james olmos and
         cristina saralegui.
  
         once a year...for a lifetime speaker's kit (slide show).
         this kit includes 66 full-color slides and a number-
         coded, ready-to-read script suitable for a mammography
         presentation to a large group.  it addresses the
         misconceptions prevalent about mammography and urges
         women age 40 and older to get regular mammograms so that
         breast cancer can be detected as early as possible.  kit
 
 hicnet medical newsletter                                              page 27
 volume  6, number 11                                           april 25, 1993
 
         includes a guide, poster, media announcement, news
         feature, flyer, and pamphlets on mammography.  this kit
         is available directly by writing to:  modern, 5000 park
         street north, st. petersburg, fl 33709-9989.
 --------- end of part 2 ------------
 
 ---
       internet: david@stat.com                  fax: +1 (602) 451-1165
       bitnet: atw1h@asuacad                     fidonet=> 1:114/15
                 amateur packet ax25: wb7tpy@wb7tpy.az.usa.na
 