
 in article <1rgo4b$et4@hsdndev.harvard.edu>, rind@enterprise.bih.harvard.edu (david rind) writes:
 > in article <1993apr23.180430.1@vms.ocom.okstate.edu>
 >  banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes:
 >>i don't like the term "quack" being applied to a licensed physician david.
 >>questionable conduct is more appropriately called unethical(in my opinion).
 > 
 >>	3. using laetril to treat cancer patients when such treatment has 
 >>	   been shown to be ineffective and dangerous(cyanide release) by 
 >>	   the nci.
 > 
 > hmm.  this is certainly among the things i would refer to as quack
 > therapy and would tend to refer to any practitioner who prescribed
 > laetrile (whether licensed or not) as a quack.  there are unethical
 > behaviors (such as ordering unneccessary tests to increase fees)
 > which i would not lable as quackish, but prescribing known ineffective
 > therapies seems to me to be one of the hallmarks of a quack.
 > -- 
 > david rind
 
 one of the responsibilities of a licensed physician is to read the medical 
 literature to keep up with changes in medical practice.  all the clamor 
 over laetril resulted in the nci spending quite a bit of money on clinical 
 trials which proved(to me anyway) that laetril was ineffective against 
 cancer.  a physician who continued to use it, when better, more effective, 
 treatments are available, may deserve to be called a quack.  anti-fungals 
 are in a different class.  the big question seems to be is it reasonable to 
 use them in patients with gi distress or sinus problems that *could* be due 
 to candida blooms following the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics?  gorden 
 rubenfeld, through e-mail, has assured me that most physicians recognize 
 the chance of candida blooms occuring after broad-spectrum antibiotic use 
 and they therefore reinnoculate their patients with *good* bacteria to 
 restore competetion for candida in the body.  i do not believe that this is 
 yet a standard part of medical practice.  he deals with critical care 
 patients where fungal infection(systemic) is a real problem and just 
 because he tries to keep *good* bacteria in his patients does not mean that 
 all physicians do this.  i think that aspergillis is more likely to be 
 found in the sinus mucus membranes than is candida.  women have been known 
 for a very long time to suffer from candida blooms in the vagina and a 
 women is lucky to find a physician who is willing to treat the cause and 
 not give give her advise to use the otc anti-fungal creams.  since candida 
 colonizes primarily in the ano-rectal area, gi symptoms should be more common 
 than vaginal problems after broad-spectrum antibiotic use.
 
 the problem we have here david is proof that gi discomfort can be caused by 
 a candida bloom.  the arguement is that without proof, no action is 
 warrented.
 
 medicine has not, and probalby never will be, practiced this way.  there 
 has always been the use of conventional wisdom.  a very good example is 
 kidney stones.  conventional wisdom(because clinical trails have not been 
 done to come up with an effective prevention), was that restricitng the 
 intake of calcium and oxalates was the best way to prevent kidney stones 
 from forming.  clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts to 
 breakdown the stone once it formed.  through the recent new england j of 
 medicine article, we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong, 
 increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than is 
 restricting calcium intake.
 
 the conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need to 
 be reinnoculated with *good* bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapy.
 if it makes sense for livestock, why doesn't it make sense for humans 
 david?  we are not talking about a dangerous treatment(unless you consider 
 yogurt dangerous).  if this were a standard part of medical practice, as 
 gordon r. says it is, then the incidence of gi distress and vaginal yeast 
 infections should decline.
 
 marty b.
 