
 this question came up in sci. med. nutrition and i'm posting my answer 
 here.  only 22 medical schools in the u.s. teach courses on human 
 nutrition.  we have already seen what a lack of nutrition education can do 
 when candida and kidney stones present themselves to the medical community.
 i think that the best example of where u.s. medicine is really missing the 
 mark when it comes to a knowledge of nutrition is pms.  so many women(and 
 their husbands) suffer from this disorder that it is really criminal that 
 most physicians in the u.s. are not taught that pms is primarily caused by 
 diet and diet changes can prevent it from ever happpening.  before shooting 
 your flames, read the entire article and then decide if flaming is 
 justified.
 
 from a poster in sci. medi. nutrition:
 > 	in a psychological anthropology course i am taking, we got 
 > sidetracked onto a short conversation about pms.  some rumors shared
 > by several of the students included ideas that vitamin levels, sugar
 > intake, and caffeine intake might affect pms symptoms.
 > 	is there any data on this, or is it just so much hooey?
 > 
 > many thanks,
 > 
 > michael, i've wanted to reply to this post ever since i saw it but i got 
 side-tracked with candida.  pms is a lot like candida blooms, most 
 physicians don't recognize it as a specific "disease" entity.  here is 
 everything that you would ever want to know about pms.
 
 premenstrual syndrome has been divided into four specific subgroups:
 
 	pmt-a(anxiety)		pmt-d(depression)
 	anxiety			depression
 	irritability		forgetfulness
 	insomnia		confusion
 	depression		lethargy
 
 	pmt-c(craving)		pmt-h(hyperhydration)
 	craving for sweets	weight gain
 	increased appetite	breast congestion and tenderness
 	sugar ingestion causes: abdominal bloating and tenderness
 	 1. headache		edema of the face and extremities
 	 2. palpitations
 	 3. fatigue or fainting
  
 pmt-a is characterized by elevated blood estrogen levels and low 
 progesterone levels during the luteal phase of a women's cycle.
 
 pmt-c is caused by the ingestion of large amounts of refined simple 
 carbohydrates.  during the luteal phase of a women's cycle, there is 
 increased glucose tolerance with a flat glucose curve after oral glucose 
 challenge.  the metabolic findings believed to be responsible for pmt-c are 
 a low magnesium and a low prostaglandin e1.  this condition of hypoglycemia 
 is not unique to pms but there are a number of different causes of 
 hypoglycemia, magnesium and pge1 seem to be specific to pms hypoglycemia.
 	a. am. j. psychiatry 147(4):477-80(1990).
 unrefined complex carbohydrate should be substituted for sugar, magnesium 
 supplementation and alpha linoleic acid supplementation(increased to 5-6% of 
 the total calories) using safflower oil or evening primrose oil as sources 
 of alpha linoleic acid.
 
 pmt-d is characterized by elevated progesterone levels during the midluteal 
 phase of a women's cycle.  another cause of pmt-d has been found to be lead 
 toxicity(in women without elevated progesterone levels during the midluteal 
 phase). "effect of metal ions on the binding of estridol to human 
 endometrial cystol" fertil. steril. 28:312-18(1972).
 
 pmt-h is associated with water and salt retention along with an elevated 
 serum aldosterone level.  salt restriction, b6, magnesium and vitamin e 
 for breast tenderness have all been effective in treating pmt-h
 
 this general discussion of the pms syndromes came form:
 
 	a. "management of the premenstrual tension sundromes: rational for 
 	    a nutritional approach". 1986, a year in nutritional medicine. 
 	    j. bland, ed. keats, publishing, 1986.
 
 	b. "nutritional factors in the etiology of premenstrual tension 
 	    syndromes", j. reprod. med.28(7):446-64(1983).
 
 	c. "premenstrual tension", prob. obstet. gynecol. 3(12):1-39(1980)
 
 treatment has traditionally involved progesterone administration if you can 
 find a doctor who will treat you for pms(just about as hard as finding one 
 that will treat you for candida blooms).  while progesterone will work, 
 supplementation with vitamins and minerals works even better.  there really 
 has been an awful lot of research done on pms(much more than candida 
 blooms).  many of these studies have been what are called experimental 
 controlled studies(the type of rigorous clinical studies that doctors like to 
 see done).
 
 here are a few of these studies:
 
 	carbohydrate: experimental controlled study, "effect of a low-fat, 
 	high-carbohydrate diet on symptoms of cyclical mastopathy" lancet 
 	2:128-32(1988).  21 pts with severe persistent cyclical mastopathy 
 	of at least 5 years duration were randomly selected to receive 
 	specific training to reduce dietary fat to 15% of total calories 
 	and increase complex carbohydrate ingestion or given general dietary 
 	advise with no training.  after 6 months, there was a significant 
 	reduction in the severity of the breast swelling and tenderness in 
 	the trained group as reported by self-reported symptoms as well as 
 	physical exams which quantitated the degree of breast swelling, 
 	tenderness and nodularity.
 
 	vitamin a: experimental controlled study, "the use of vitamin a in 
 	premenstrual tension" acta obstet. gynecol scand. 39:586-92(1960).  
 	218 pts with severe recurring pms received 200,000 to 300,000iu 
 	vitamin a daily or a placebo.  serum retinol levels were monitored 
 	and high dose supplementation was discontinued when evidence of 
 	toxicity occured(serum retinol above 450ug/ml).  the intent of the 
 	study was to load the liver up with vitamin a and get a normal pool 
 	size(500,000iu to 1,000,000iu) and then see if this 
 	normal vitamin a pool could prevent pms.  48% getting the high dose 
 	vitamin a had complete remission of the symptoms of pms.  only 10% 
 	getting the placebo reported getting complete relief of pms sysmptoms.
   	10% of the vitamin a treated group reported no improvement in pms 
 	symptoms.
 
 	experimental controlled study, "premenstrual tension treated with 
 	vitamin a" j. clinical endocrinology 10:1579-89(1950). 30 pts 
 	received 200,000iu of vitamin a daily starting on day 15 of their 
 	cycle with supplementation continuing until the onset of pms symptoms.
   	after 2-6 months, all 30 pts reported a significant improvement in 
 	pms symptoms.  vitamin a supplementation was stopped once evidence of 
 	toxicity was demonstrated and all 30 pts were followed for one year 
 	after high dose vitamin a supplementation was stopped.  pms symptoms 
 	did not reoccur in any of these 30 pts for upto one year after the 
 	vitamin a supplementation was stopped.
 
 most americans do not have a normal store of vitamin a in their liver.  
 these studies and several others were designed to see if getting a normal 
 store of vitamin a into the liver could eliminate pms.  of all the vitamins 
 given for pms(vitamin a, b6, and vitamin e), vitamin a has shown the best 
 single effect.  this is probably because vitamin a is involved in steroid 
 (estrogen/progesterone) metabolism in the liver.  getting your liver full 
 of vitamin a seems to be one of the best things that you can do to prevent 
 the symptoms of pms.  but vitamin a is toxic and you don't want to be trying 
 to do this without being seen by a physician who can monitor you for vitamin 
 a toxicity.
 
 	vitamin b6: experimental double-blind crossoverr study, "pyridoxine
 	(vitamin b6) and the premenstrual syndrome: a randomized crossover 
 	trial"j.r. coll. gen. pract. 39:364-68(1989).  32 women aged 18-49 
 	with moderate to severe pms randomly received 50mg b6 daily or placebo.
   	after 3 months the groups were switched and followed for another 
 	3 months.  b6 had a significant effect on the emotional aspects of 
 	pms(depression, irritability and tiredness).  other symptoms of pms 
 	were not significanttly affected by b6 supplementation.
 
 	experimental double-blind study, "the efects of vitamin b6 
 	supplementation on premenstrual sysmptoms" obstet. gynecol 
 	70(2):145-49(1987).  55 pts with moderate to severe pms received 
 	150mg b6 daily or placebo for 2 months.  analysis of convergence 
 	showed that b6 significantly improved premenstrual symptoms related 
 	to the autonomic nervous system(dizziness and vomiting) as well as 
 	behavior changes(poor mental performance, decreased social interaction)
   	anxiety, depression and water retention were not improved by b6 
 	supplementation.
 
 vitamin b6 is below the rda for both american men and women.  birth control 
 pills and over 40 different drugs increase the b6 requirement in man.  
 women on birth control pills should be supplemented with 10-15 mg of b6 per 
 day.  the dose should be increased if symptoms of pms appear.  dr. david r. 
 rubinow who heads the biological psychiatry branch of nimh was quoted in 
 clin. psychiatry news, december, 1987 as stating that b6 should be 
 considered the "first-line" drug for pms(over progesterone) and if the 
 patient does not respond, then other treatments should be tried.  vitamin 
 b6 can be toxic(nerve damage) if consumed in doses of 500mg or more each 
 day. 
 
 
 	vitamin e: experimental double-blind study, "efficacy of alpha-
 	tocopherol in the treatment of premenstrual syndrome" j. reprod. 
 	med. 32(6):400-04(1987). 35 pts received 400iu vitamin e daily for 3 
 	cycles or a placebo.  vitamin e treated pts had 33% who reported a 
 	significant reduction in physical symptoms(weight gain and breast 
 	tenderness) while the placebo group had 14% who reported a significant
  	reduction in physical symptoms. the vitamin e group reported that 38% 
 	had a significant reduction in anxiety versus 12% for the placebo 
 	group.  for depression, the vitamin e group had 27% with a significant
 	decrease in depression compared with 8% for the placebo group.
 
 	experimental double-blind study, "the effect of alpha-tocopherol on 
 	premenstrual symptomalogy: a double blind study" j. am. coll. nutr. 
 	2(2):115-122(1983). 75pts with benign breast disease and pmt randomly 
 	received vitamin e at 75iu, 150iu, or 300iu daily or placebo.  after 
 	2 months of supplementation, 150iu of vitamin e or higher significantly 
 	improved pmt-a and pmt-c.  the 300iu dose was needed to significantly 
 	improve pmt-d.  no dose of vitamin e significantly improved pmt-h
 	(other studies have shown that a higher vitamin e doses will relieve 
 	pmt-h symptoms).
 	
 	magnesium: experimental double-blind study, "magnesium prophylaxis 
 	of menstrual migraine: effects on itracellular magnesium" headache 
 	31:298-304(1991). 20 pts with perimenstrual headache received 360 mg 
 	daily of magnesium as magnesium pyrrolidone carboxylic acid or a 
 	placebo.  treatment was started on the 15th day of the cycle and 
 	continued until menstruation. after 2 months, the pain total index 
 	was significantly lower in the magnesium group.  magnesium treatment 
 	was also assocoiated with a significant reduction in the menstrual 
 	distress questionnaire scores.  pretreatment magnesium levels in  
 	lymphocytes and polymorphonuclear leukocytes were significantly lower 
 	in this group of 20 pts compared to control women who did not suffer 
 	from pms.  after treatment, magnesium levels in these cells was raised 
 	into the normal range.
 
 	experimental double-blind study, "oral magnesium successfully 
 	relieves premenstrual mood changes" obstet. gynecol 78(2):177-81(1991). 
 	32pts aged 24-39 randomly received either magnesium carboxylic acid 
 	360mg of mg per day or a placebo from the 15th day of the cycle to the 
 	onset of the menstrual flow.  after 2 cycles, both groups received 
 	magnesium.  the menstrual distress questionnaire score of the cluster 
 	pain was significantly reduced during the second cycle(month) for the 
 	magnesium treatment group as well as the placebo group once they were 
 	switched to magnesium supplementation.  in addition, the total score on 
 	the menstrual distress questionnaire was significantly decreased by 
 	magnesium supplementation.  the authors suggest that magnesium 
 	supplemenation should become a routine treatment for the mood changes 
 	that occur during pms.
 
 there are numerous observational studies that have been published in the 
 medical literature which also suggest that pms is primarily a disorder 
 that arises out of a hormone imbalance that is dietary in nature.  but 
 since observational studies are considered by most physicians in sci. med. 
 to be anecdotal in nature, i have not bothered to cite them.  there are 
 also over a half dozen good experimental studies that have been done on 
 multivitamin and mineral supplementation to prevent pms.  i've chosen the 
 best specific studies on individual vitamins and minerals to try to point out 
 that pms is primarily a nutritional disorder.  but doctors don't recognize 
 nutritional disorders unless they can see clinical pathology(beri-beri, 
 pellagra, scruvy, etc.).  pms is probably the best reason why every doctor 
 being trained in the u.s. should get a good course on human nutrition.  pms 
 is really only the tip if the iceberg when it comes to nutritional 
 disorders.  it's time that medicine woke up and smelled the roses.
 
 here's some studies which show the importance in multivitamin/mineral 
 supplementation and/or diet change in preventing pms.
 
 	experimental study, "effect of a nutritional programme on 
 	premenstrual syndrome: a retrospective analysis", complement. med. 
 	res.5(1):8-11(1991).  200pts were given dietary instructions and 
 	supplemented with optivite(r) plus additional vitamin c, vitamin e, 
 	magnesium, zinc and primrose oil.  the dietary instructions were to 
 	take the supplements and switch to a low fat, complex carbohydrate 
 	diet.  on a retrospective analysis, 96.5% of the 200pts reported an 
 	improvement in their pms symptoms with 30% of the sample stating that 
 	they no longer suffered from pms. 
 
 
 	experimental double-blind study, "role of nutrition in managing 
 	premenstrual tension syndromes", j reprod. med. 32(6):405-22(1987).  
 	a low fat, high complex carbohydrate diet along with optivite 
 	supplementation significantly decreased pms scores compared with diet 
 	change and placebo.  after 6 months on the experimental program, the 
 	vitamin/mineral supplementated group had significantly decreased 
 	estradiol and increased progesterone in serum during the midlutel 
 	phase of their cycle.
 
 	experimental double-blind study, "clinical and biochemical effects 
 	of nutritional supplementation on the premenstrual syndrome", j. 
 	reprod. med. 32(6):435-41(1987). 119pts randomly given optivite(12 
 	tablets per day) or a placebo.  the treated groups showed a 
 	significant decrease in pms symptoms compared to the placebo.  another
  	group of 104pts got optivite(4 tablets per day) or placebo.  for this 
 	second group of patients, no significant effect of supplementation on 
 	pms symptoms was observed.
 
 martin banschbach, ph.d.
 professor of biochemistry and chairman
 department of biochemistry and microbiology
 osu college of osteopathic medicine
 1111 w. 17th st.
 tulsa, ok 74107
 
 "without discourse, there is no remembering, without remembering, there is 
 no learning, without learning, there is only ignorance" 
 