
 in article <1rh3seinnfkc@newsstand.cit.cornell.edu>, renee <rme1@cornell.edu> writes:
 > does anyone here know anything about chelation therapy using edta?  my
 > uncle has emphesema, and a doctor wants to try it on him.  we are
 > wondering if:
 > 
 > 1.  is there any evidence edta chelation therapy is beneficial for his
 > condition, or any condition?
 > 
 > 2.  what possible side effects are there.  how can they be mimimized?
 > 
 > please respond via e-mail to    rme1@cornell.edu
 > 
 > thanks,
 > renee
 
 edta(chelation therapy) has been used by some physicians to try to remove 
 calcium from calcified plaques in the arterial system(not approved for such 
 use).  there is also the possibility that lung tissue in patients with lung 
 disease has become calcified(chest x-rays would show this).  there are side
 -effects to the use of edta because it is not specific for calcium(it also 
 binds other minerals).  i think that there have been some deaths when 
 edta chelation therapy has been used because of mineral imbalances that 
 were not detected and corrected.  in animal studies, the best way to remove 
 calcium from plaques in rabbits was to supplement the rabbits with vitamin c 
 and magnesium(rabbits already synthesize their own vitamin c, the extra 
 vitamin c was given in their diets to help the magnesium displace the calcium 
 from the plaques).
 
 the calcification process that occurs in both plaques and the lung probably 
 can be prevented if magnesium is used in supplemental form.  most patietns 
 with calcium deposits are found to be deficient in calcium.
 
 	1. "magnesium interrationships in ischemic heart disease: a review"
 	   am j clin nutr 27(1):59-79(1974).  supplementation with 
 	   magnesium will prevent clacification of blood vessels. 
 
 	2. "the importance of magnesium deficiency in cardiovascular 
 	    disease" am. heart j 94:649-57(1977).  the need to measure the 
 	    serum concentration in all patients with heat disease cannot be 
 	    overemphasized.  this is a review article.
 
 	3. "effect of dietary magnesium on development of atherosclerosis 
 	   in cholesterol-fed rabbits" atherosclerosis 10:732-7(1990).  
 	   magnesium supplementation greatly decreased the formation of 
 	   plaques in rabbits feed a diet that had 1% by weight cholesterrol 
 	   added to their normal food.
 
 since edta will also bind magnesium, i've never really liked it's use for 
 the reversal of athersclerosis or now apparently in emphesema patients.
 
 marty b.
 