
 hoss@panix.com  writes:
 > hi all, ive applied for the class of 93 at quite a number of schools (20)
 > and have gotten 13 rejects, 4 interviews and 3 no responses.
 
 three possible results after interview:
 1) rejection outright
 2) acceptance outright
 3) the infamous 'wait list'... 
 
 if you are on a 'wait list', your entrance into medical school
 is dependent upon some other applicant withdrawing their
 acceptance.  this can happen as late as day -1 of starting
 classes.  
 
 > any one know when the heck these people send out their acceptance letters?
 > according to the med school admissions book theyre supposed to send out
 > the number of their class in acceptances by mid march. whats going on... i
 > am losing my sanity checking my mailbox every day.
 
 you can always call the admissions office.  the secretaries
 should have some idea of when a decision might be made on your
 application.  be calm, respectful, and friendly; secretaries
 have more power than you might realize, and you never know-
 could be the dean of admissions answering the phone.
 
 > also does anyone have some useful alternatives in case i dont get in, i
 
 if you don't get in this year, sit down and re-evaluate
 yourself: your motives, desires, and goals that are directing
 you into medicine; your academic and extracurricular
 accomplishments.  make a decision about whether you *really*
 want to be a medical doctor.  i had classmates who dropped out
 in the first semester of med school because they found it was
 not what they wanted to do; i have friends who applied four
 years in a row before they were accepted.  medicine as a
 career is a choice you must make for yourself; don't be
 pushed into it because of your parents/family/significant
 other.  
 
 if you still want to be a medical doctor, determine how you
 can improve your application.  a letter of recommendation from
 a professor who knows you well and can give an honest positive
 recommendation is far better than one from a 'big-shot' famous
 professor who only vaguely remembers your face.  also, don't
 be afraid to ask these people if they can give you an honest
 and positive recommendation; give them a chance to say 'no,
 sorry' instead of the medical school saying 'no, sorry'.  i
 have turned down writing recommendations for some students
 because i did not know them well enough to make any meaningful
 comments, and some because i honestly could not recommend them
 at that point.  
 
 rewrite your personal statement; take it by an english
 professor or some other friendly person with skill and
 experience in writing and proof-reading and get their
 criticism, both about what you are saying as well as how you
 say it.
 
 review your academic accomplishments.  if your grades are poor
 in some area, don't be afraid to spend some time in further
 coursework.  evidence of determined committment will help
 here.  if you filled your pre-medicine curriculum with gut
 courses, it usually shows.
 
 look at your extracurricular involvements.  participating in
 local philanthropic or service organizations is a plus;
 substantial leadership roles in an organization help also.
 beware of 'resume padding'; such things are not difficult to
 spot and weed out.
 
 overall, a clear conception of where you wish to head and why
 you want to get there, combined with an honest self-appraisal
 of skills and aptitude, will be the best path to take in
 applying to any program, medical or what-have-you.
 
 good luck with the process -- as tom petty says, 'the waiting
 is the hardest part', at least emotionally. :)
 
 bob schmieg
 