
 in article <1rjifg$bgm@hsdndev.harvard.edu>, rind@enterprise.bih.harvard.edu (david rind) writes:
 > in article <1993apr26.174538.1@vms.ocom.okstate.edu>
 >  banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes:
 >>oxygen(just like it does in the vagina).  as much stuff as there is in the 
 >>lay press about l. acidophilus and vaginal yeast infections, i'm really 
 >>amazed that someone has not done a clinical trial yet to check it out.
 > 
 > i've mentioned this study a couple of times now: ingestion of yogurt
 > containing lactobacillus acidophilus as prophylaxis for candidal
 > vaginitis, annals of internal medicine, 3/1/92 116(5):353-7.  do you
 > have a problem with the study because they used yogurt rather than
 > capsules of lactobacillus (even though it had positive results)?
 > 
 > the study was a crossover trial of daily ingestion of 8 ounces of
 > yogurt.  there was a marked decrease in infections while women were
 > ingesting the yogurt.  problems with the study included very small
 > numbers (33 patients enrolled) and many protocol violations (only
 > 21 patients were analyzed).  still, the difference in rates of infection
 > between the two groups was so large that the study remains fairly
 > believable.
 > -- 
 > david rind
 
 david, this study looks like a good one.  gordon rubenfeld did a medline 
 search and also sent me the same reference through e-mail.  since 
 commercial yogurt does not always have a good lactobacillus a. or 
 bulgaricus culture, a negative finding would not have been too informative.
 this is often the reason why lactobacillus acidophilus tablets are 
 recommended rather than yogurt.
 
 i guess the next question is why would this introduction of "good" bacteria 
 back into the gut decrease the incidence of vaginal candida blooms if the 
 anus was not serving as a candida reservoir(a fact that gordon r. vehementy
 denys)?  i see two possible theories.  one, the l. acidophilus, which is a 
 facultatively anaerobic bacterium, could make it through the gut and 
 colonize the rectal area to overgrow the candida.  this would not explain 
 the reoccurance of candida blooms in the vagina after the yogurt ingestion 
 was stopped though.  the other is that the additional bacteria in the 
 intestinal tract remove most of the glucose from the feces and candida 
 looses it's major food source.
 
 getting lactobacillus acidophilus to colonize the vaginal tract(where it is 
 normally found) would have a much better effect on the recurrance of vaginal 
 yeast blooms though.  an acetic acid, lactobacillus acidophilus douche has 
 been used to get this effect but i've not seen any such treatment reported in 
 the medical literature.  this would be an example of physicians conducting 
 their own clinical trials to try to come up with treatments that help their 
 patients.  when this is done in private practice, the results are rarely, if 
 ever published.  it was the hallmark of medicine until the modern age 
 emerged with clinical trials.  it really raises a big question.  does the 
 medical profession cast out the adventerous few who try new treatments to 
 help patients or does it look the other way.
 
 this particular issue is really a very simple one since no real dangerous 
 therapy is involved(even the anti-fungals are not all that dangerous).  but 
 there are some areas(like edta chelation therapy), where the fire is pretty 
 hot and somebody could get burned.  it's really tough.  do i follow only 
 well established protocols and then give up if they don't work that well or 
 do it try something that looks like it will work but hasn't been proven to 
 work yet?
 
 my stand is to consider other treatment possibilities, especially if they 
 involve little or no risk to the patient.  getting good bacteria back into 
 the gut after antibiotic treatment is one treatment possibility.  the other 
 is getting l. acidophilus into the vaginal tract of a woman who is having a 
 problem with recurring yeast infections.
 
 marty b.
 