
 
 i'm a fellow applicant and my situation is not too much better.  i applied
 to about 20 schools, got two interviews, got one offer, and am waiting to
 hear from the other school.
 
 let me be honest about my experiences and impressions about the medical
 school admissions process.  numbers (gpa, mcats) are not everything, 
 but they are probably more important than anything else.  in fact, some
 schools screen out applicants based on these numbers and never even look
 at your other qualities.  of course, when this happens, don't expect a refund
 on your $50 application fee.
 
 but, the fact that you got four interviews tells me that you have the numbers
 and are very well qualified academically.  you mentioned one response, was it
 an acceptance, denial, or wait-list?  if i assume the worst, that it was a
 denial, then you still have a great probability of acceptance somewhere.  how
 did your interviews go?
 
 as for how long you have to wait, i've called a few schools who never contacted
 me for anything.  many of them told me that the interview season for them was
 over and that if i haven't heard by now, i can assume a denial.  many rejection
 letters are not sent out until may or as late as june.  but some schools are
 still interviewing. i really don't think you should worry.  don't become
 fixated on the mailbox, go out, have fun, be very proud of yourself.
 
 what do people think of the medical school admissions process?  i had a very
 mediocre gpa, but high mcat scores, and i have been working as a software
 engineer for two years.  i majored in computer science at stanford.  still,
 i think the profile of the person who has the best chance of getting admitted
 is something like this:
 
 very important
 --------------
 gpa:	3.5 or better
 mcat:   top 15% in all subject
 
 medium importance
 -----------------
 writing/speaking ability
 maturity
 motivation for going into medicine
 activities
 
 less important
 --------------
 college or university
 major
 work experience
 anything else you want them to know
 
 
 anyway, you are in good shape.  i think admissions committees are bound in
 many ways by the numbers, but would like very much to understand each
 person as an individual.  sometimes thats just not practical.  but getting 
 four interviews is an indicator that you have the numbers.  hopefully, you
 were able to impress them with your character.
 
 
 good luck,
 jeff
 
 