
 
 here is a press release from huntington medical research institutes.
 
  new method for diagnosing alzheimer's disease discovered at
 huntington medical research institutes: results to be reported
  to: national desk, health writer
  contact: john lockhart or belinda gerber, 310-444-7000, or
           800-522-8877, for the huntington medical research
           institutes.
 
    los angeles, april 28  -- a new method for diagnosing 
 and measuring chemical imbalances in the brain
 which lead to alzheimer's disease and other dementias has been
 discovered by researchers at the huntington medical research
 institutes (hmri) in pasadena, calif.  results of their research
 will be reported in the may issue of the scientific journal,
 radiology.
    using an advanced form of magnetic resonance imaging (mri)
 called magnetic resonance spectroscopy (mrs), a research team led
 by brian d. ross, m.d., d. phil., conducted a study on 21 elderly
 patients who were believed to be suffering from some form of
 dementia. the exams used standard mri equipment fitted with special
 software developed at hmri called clinical proton mrs.  clinical
 proton mrs is easily applied, giving doctors confirmatory diagnoses
 in less than 30 minutes.  an automated version of clinical proton
 mrs called proton brain examination (probe) reduces the examination
 time yet further, providing confirmatory diagnoses in less than 10
 minutes.  by comparison, the current "standard of care" in testing
 for alzheimer's disease calls for lengthy memory function and
 neuropsychological tests, which can be very upsetting to the
 patient, are not definitive and can only be confirmed by autopsy.
    in addition to alzheimer's disease, the new clinical proton mrs
 exam may have applications in diagnosing other dementias, including
 aids-related dementia, parkinson's disease and huntington's
 disease.
    "we've developed a simple test which can be administered quickly
 and relatively inexpensively using existing mri equipment fitted
 with either the mrs or probe software," said dr. ross, adding,
 "this will help physicians to diagnose alzheimer's earlier and
 intervene with therapeutics before the progression of the disease
 causes further damage to the delicate inner workings of the brain."
    dr. ross and his hmri team measured a family of chemicals in the
 brain known as inositols, and myo-inositol (mi) acted as a marker
 in the study.  in comparison to healthy patients, those diagnosed
 with alzheimer's showed a 22 percent increase in mi, while their
 level of another chemical called n-acetylaspartate (naa) was
 significantly lower, indicating a loss of brain-stimulating neurons
 believed to be associated with the progression of the disease.
    current drug therapy for alzheimer's disease is widely
 considered to be inadequate.  this is attributable, dr. ross
 believes, to the theory that alzheimer's is caused by an
 interruption in the transmission of the chemical acetylcholine to
 the nerve cells. this belief has been adhered to over the last 15
 years, and consequently, most drugs to treat alzheimer's were based
 on the changing receptors for acetylcholine.
    "physicians have a real need for a test to differentiate
 alzheimer's from other dementias, to provide the patient and his or
 her family with a firm diagnosis and to monitor future treatment
 protocols for the treatment of this disease.  for this reason, we
 consider this test a major advancement in medicine," said bruce
 miller, m.d., a noted neurologist at harbor-ucla, mrs researcher
 and a co-author of the study.
    other members of the hmri research team included rex a. moats,
 ph.d., truda shonk, b.s., thomas ernst, ph.d., and suzanne woolley,
 r.n.  the probe software can be fitted on the approximately 1,200
 general electric mri units currently in use in the united states,
 and will be configured for other manufacturers' mri units soon.
    for interviews with dr. ross, advance copies of the radiology
 may issue, and other information, please contact john lockhart or
 belinda gerber for hmri at 310-444-7000 or 800-522-8877.
 
    q & a on alzheimer's disease:
 
    what is alzheimer's disease and how is it caused?
    alzheimer's disease (ad) is an incurable degenerative disease of
 the brain first described in 1906 by the german neuropathologist
 alois alzheimer.  as the disease progresses, it leads to loss of
 memory and mental functioning, followed by changes in personality,
 loss of control of bodily functions, and, eventually, death.
    how many people does it affect?
    alzheimer's disease affects an estimated 4 million adults in
 the united states and is the fourth leading cause of death, taking
 approximately 100,000 lives each year.  while alzheimer's
 debilitates its victims, it is equally devastating, both
 emotionally and financially, for patients' families.  ad is the
 most common cause of dementia in adults.  symptoms worsen every
 year, and death usually occurs within 10 years of initial onset.
    what are its signs and symptoms?
    although the cause of ad is not known, two risk factors have
 been identified: advanced age and genetic predisposition.  the risk
 of developing ad is less than one percent before the age of 50
 yars old, but increases steeply in each successive decade of life
 to reach 30 percent by the age of 90.  in patients with familial
 ad, immediate family relatives have a 50 percent chance of
 developing ad.  one of its first symptoms is severe "forgetfulness"
 caused by short-term memory loss.  dr. herman weinreb of the school
 of medicine at new york university says "whether forgetfulness is
 a serious symptom or not is largely a matter of degree" and
 suggests the following criteria:
 
    -- forgetting the name of someone you see infrequently is
       normal.
    -- forgetting the name of a loved one is serious.
    -- forgetting where you left your keys is normal.
    -- forgetting how to get home is serious.
 
    doctors suggest that people with severe symptoms should be
 evaluated in order to rule out alzheimer's disease and other forms
 of dementia.
  -30-
 --
 canada remote systems - toronto, ontario
 416-629-7000/629-7044
 