
 in article <c66919.inz@world.std.com>, rmccown@world.std.com (bob mccown) writes...
 >we're about to have our first baby, and have a few questions that we
 >dont seem to be able to get answered to our satisfaction. 
 > 
 >reguarding having a baby boy circumsized, what are the medical pros
 >and cons?  all we've heard is 'its up to the parents'.
 > 
 unfortonately, that truly is about the best summation of the research
 that there is.  advantages stated of circumcison included probably
 prevention of penile cancer, (which, interestingly, occurs mostly in men
 whose personal hygiene is exceptionally poor), simplicity of personal
 hygiene, prevention of urinary tract infections, and prevention of
 a unretractible foreskin,  disadvantages include infection from the 
 procedure, pain, etc.  i apologize; i am trying to pull this off
 the top of my head.  i will post what i discovered in research; i did
 a paper on the topic in my research class in nursing school.
 it really is a decision that is up to the parents.  some parents use
 the reasoning that they will "look like daddy" and like their friends
 as justification.  there is nothing wrong with this; just be sure it is
 what you want to do, since it is rather difficult to uncircumcise
 a male, although a major surgical procedure exists.
 
 >how about the pregnant woman sitting in a tub of water?  we've heard 
 >stories of infection, etc.  how about after the water has broken?
 > 
 as long as your membranes have not broken and you have not had any
 problems with your pregnancy, it should be ok to sit in a tub of water.
 however, i would recommend using your own bathtub in your own home!
 it is nearly impossible to guarantee the cleanliness and safety of "public"
 hot tubs.  a nice warm bath can be very relaxing, especially if your back
 is killing you!  and it would possibly be advisable to avoid bubble bath
 soap , esp. if you are prone to yeast infection.
 
 hope these tips help you some.
 
 elisa
 picl25@fsphy1.physics.fsu.edu
 