
 some of the md's in this newsgroup have been riding my butt pretty good
 (maybe in some cases with good reason).  in this post on depression, i'm 
 laying it all out.  i'll continue to post here because i think that i have 
 some knowledge that could be useful.  once you have read this post, you 
 should know where i'm coming from when i post again in the future.
 
 in article <123552@netnews.upenn.edu>, lchaplyn@mail.sas.upenn.edu (lida chaplynsky) writes:
 > 
 > a family member of mine is suffering from a severe depression brought on
 > by menopause as well as a mental break down.  she is being treated with
 > halydol with some success but the treatments being provided through her
 > psychiatrist are not satisfactory.  someone suggested contacting a
 > nutritionist to
 > discuss alternative treatment.  since she is sensitive to medication, i
 > think this is a good suggestion but don't know where to begin.  if anyone
 > can suggest a philly area nutritionist, or else some literature to read,
 > i'd appreciate it.
  
 lida,
 i can emphasize with your situation.  both my wife and i suffered from 
 bouts of depression.  her's was brought on by breast cancer and mine was a 
 rebound stress reaction to her modified radical mastectomy and 
 chemotherapy.  lida, i used my knowledge of nutrition to get her through 
 her six months of chemotherapy(with the approval of her oncologist).  when 
 severe depression set in a few months after the chemo stopped, i tried to 
 use supplements to bring her out of it.  i had "cured" her pms using 
 supplements and i really thought that i knew enough about the role of diet 
 in depression to take care of her depression as well.  it didn't work and 
 she was put on prozac by her oncologist.  two winters ago(three years after 
 by wife's breast cancer) i got hit with severe depression(pretty typical and 
 one reason why many marriages break up after breast cancer or another 
 stressor).  i tried to take care of it for several months with 
 supplementation.  didn't work.  my internist ended up putting me on prozac. 
 i was going to give you a list of several studies that have been done using 
 b6, niacin, folate and b12 to "cure" depression.  i'm not going to do that 
 because all you would be doing is flying blind like i was.
 
 lida, i do believe that depression can have a dietary component.  but the 
 problem is that you need to know exactly what the problem is and then use 
 an approach which will "fix" the problem.  for chemotherapy, i knew exactly 
 what drugs were going to be used and exactly what nutrients would be 
 affected.  same thing for pms.  i was flying blind for both of these 
 stressors but the literature that i used to devise a treatment program was 
 pretty good.  depression is just too complicated.  what you really need is 
 a nutritional scan.  this is not a diet analysis but an analysis of your 
 bodies nutrient reserves.  for every vitamin and mineral(except vitamin c), 
 you have a reserve.  the rda is not designed to give you enough of any 
 nutrient to keep these reserves full, it is only designed to keep them from 
 being emptied which would cause clinical pathology.  stress will increase 
 your need for many vitamins and minerals.  this is when your reserves become 
 very important.
 
 lida, without your permission, i'm going to use your post as a conduit to 
 try to explain to the readers in this group and sci. med. where i'm coming 
 from.  i have taught a course on human nutrition in one of the osteopathic 
 medical schools for ten years now.  i've written my own textbook because 
 none was available.  what i teach is not a rehash of biochemistry.  i 
 preach nutrient reserves(yes my lectures in this course are referred to by 
 my students as sermons).  here is what i cover:
 
 indroduction and carbohydrates 			lipids
 
 proteins i					proteins ii
 
 energy balance					evaluation of nutritional
 						status i, a clinical 
 						perspective
 
 evaluation of nutritional status ii,            evaluation of nutritional		
 a biochemical perspective			status iii, homework 
 						assignment using the 
 						nutritionist iv diet and 
 						fitness analysis software 
 						program
 
 weight control					food fads and facts
 
 age-related change in nutrient requirements	food additives, 
 						contaminants and cancer
 
 drug-nutrient interactions			mineral and water balance
 
 sodium, potassium and chloride			calcium, magnesium and 
 						phosphorus
 
 iron						zinc and copper
 
 iodine and fluoride				other trace minerals
 
 vitamin a					vitamin e
 
 vitamins d and k				vitamin c
 
 thiamin and niacin				riboflavin and pyridoxine
 
 pantothenic and folic acids			biotin and b12
 
 other nutrient factors				enteral nutrition
 
 parenteral nutrition
 
 every three years i spend my entire summer reviewing the medical literature 
 to find material that i can use in my nutrition textbook.  i last did this 
 in the summer of 1991.  i read everything that i can find and then sit down 
 and rewrite my lecture handouts which are bound in three separate books 
 that have 217, 237 and 122 pages.  opposite each page of written text(which 
 i write myself) i've pulled figures, tables and graphs from various 
 copyrighted sources.  since this material is only being used for 
 educational purposes, i can get around the copyright laws (so far).  i can not 
 send this material out to newsgroup readers(as i've been asked to do).
 
 i am now in the process of trying to get a grant to setup a nutrition 
 assessment lab.  this is the last peice of the nutrition puzzle that i need 
 to make my education program complete.  this lab will let me measure the 
 nutrient reserve for almost all the vitamins and minerals that are known to 
 be required in humans.  the mayo clinic already uses a similiar lab to 
 design supplement programs for their cancer patients.  cancer treatment 
 centers of america, which is a private for-profit organization with 
 hospitals in illinois and oklahoma(tulsa) also operates a 
 nutritional assessment clinical lab.  i also believe that the pritikin 
 clinic in california has a similiar lab setup.
 
 for physicians reading this post, i would suggest that you get the new 
 clinical nutrition textbook that has just been published(feb) by mosby.  i 
 have been using alpers manual of nutritional therapeutics(a little brown 
 series book) as a supplemental text for my course but alpers is geared more 
 to residency training.  two m.d's have written this new clinical nutrition
 textbook and it is geared more towards medical student education and it 
 does a good job of covering the lab tests that can be run to assess a 
 patient's nutritional status.  let me quote a few sentences from the 
 preface of this new text:
 
 "so-called nutrition specialists were in reality gastroenterologists, 
 hematologists, or pediatricians who just happened to profess some knowledge 
 of nutrition as it related to their field of practice."  
 
 "unfortunately, about two thirds of the medical schools in the united 
 states require no formal instruction in nutrition."
 
 "but times and medical practice have changed.  more than half of the 
 leading causes of death in this country are nutrition related."
 
 "... this monograph should accomplish the following two objectives: (1) it 
 should complement your medical training by emphasizing the relevance of 
 nutrition to your medical practice; and (2) it should heighten your 
 awareness of nutrition as a medical speciality that is vitally important 
 for both disease prevention and the treatment of diseases of essentially 
 every organ system."
 
 roland l. weinsier, md, drph 
 
 lida, my advise to you is that you tell your family members to try to find 
 a physician who has an understanding of the role that vitamins and minerals
 (yes even magnesium may play a role in depression) play in depression and 
 who could get a nutritional profile run.  menopause is often a time when 
 women suffer depression.  there are a lot of hormonal changes that are 
 occuring but they are not the same ones that occur during pms.  a 
 nutritionist may also be able to help.  not too long ago a poster mentioned 
 that his nutritionist had diagnosed a selenium deficiency based on a red 
 cell glutathionine peroxidase test(the specific test for the selenium 
 reserve).  most clinical labs will not run this test and i advised him to 
 try to make sure that the lab that did the test was certified.  there are 
 also a lot of hair and nail analysis labs setup to do trace mineral 
 analysis but these labs are not regulated.  checks of these labs using 
 certified standards, and also those doing water lead analysis, showed some 
 pretty shoddy testing was going on.  if you or anyone else finds someone 
 who will run these speciality nutrition tests, make sure that they are 
 using a lab that has been certified under clia(the clinical laboratory 
 improvement act).  
 
 a diet analysis may be helpful since many nutrient reserves have been shown 
 to correlate fairly well with the dietary intake as monitored by food logging 
 and software analysis(nutritionist iv and other software programs).  but 
 there are still about half of the nutrients required by humans that do not 
 show a very good correlation between apparent dietary intake and reserve status.
 until we have more nutritional assessment clinical labs in operation in the 
 u.s. and physicians who have been trained how to use the nutritional 
 profile that these labs provide to devise a treatment approach that uses 
 diet changes and supplementation, anti-depressants will probably continue 
 to be the best approach to depression.
 
 martin banschbach, ph.d.
 professor of biochemistry and chairman
 department of biochemistry and microbiology
 osu college of osteopathic medicine
 
 "without discourse, there is no remembering, without remembering, there is 
 no learning, without learning, there is only ignorance."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 