
 in article <1993apr29.145140.10559@newsgate.sps.mot.com>, rhca80@melton.sps.mot.com (henry melton) writes:
 > 
 > my wife has requested that i poll the sages of usenet to see what is
 > known about the use of chromium in weight-control diet suppliments.
 > she has seen multiple products advertising it and would like any kind
 > real information.
 > 
 > my first impulse was "yuck! a metal!" but i have zero data on it.
 > 
 > what do you know?
 > 
 > -- 
 > henry melton 
 
 i'll tell you all that i know about chromium.  but before i do, i want to 
 get a few things off my chest.  i just got blasted in e-mail for my kidney 
 stone posts.  kidney stones are primarily caused by diet, as is heart 
 disease and cancer.  when i give dietary advise, it is not intended to 
 encourage people reading this news group(or sci. med. nutrition where i do 
 most of my posting) to avoid seeing a doctor.  nothing can be further from 
 the truth.  kidney stones can be caused by tumors and this possibility has to 
 be ruled out.  but once it is, diet is a good way of preventing a reoccurance.
 same thing with heart disease and cancer, if you suspect that you may have 
 a problem with one of these diseases, don't use what i'm going to tell you 
 or what you read in some book to avoid going to a doctor.  you have to go.
 hopefully you will find a doctor who knows enough about nutrition to help 
 you change your risk factors for both diseases as part of a treatment 
 program(but the odds are that you will not and that's why i'm here).  when 
 my wife detected a lump in here breast i didn't say, don't worry my vitamin 
 e will take care of it.  any breast lump has to be worked up by a physician, 
 plan and simple.  if it's begnin(which most are) fine, then maybe a diet 
 change and supplementation will prevent further breast lumps from occuring.
 but let me tell you right now, if you have tried diet and supplementation 
 and another lump returns, get your butt into the doctor's office as fast as 
 your little feet can carry you(better yet, have a mammography done on a 
 regular basis, my wife kept putting her's off, both myself and her 
 gynocologist told her she needed to have one done).  her gynocologist even 
 scheduled one, but she didn't show up(too busy running the operating room for 
 the biggest hospital in tulsa).
 
 one more thing, i am not an orthomolecular nutritionist.  this group uses 
 high dose vitamins and minerals to treat all kinds of disease.  there is 
 absolutely no doubt in my mind that vitamins and minerals can and do have 
 drug actions in the body.  but you talk about flying blind, man this is 
 really blind treatment.  no drug could ever be used as these vitamins and 
 minerals are being used.  i'm not saying that some of this stuff couldn't 
 be right on the money, it may well be.  but my approach to nutrition is a 
 lot like that of weinsier and morgan, the two m.d's who wrote the new 
 clinical nutrition textbook.  my push is the nutrient reserves and the lab 
 tests needed to measure these reserves and then supplementation or diet 
 changes to get these reserves built up to where they should be to let you 
 handle stress.  that's where i'm coming from folks.  blast away if you want,
 i'm not going to change.  put me in your killfile if you want, i really 
 don't care.  i'm averaging 8-10 e-mail messages a day from people who think 
 that i've got something important to say.  but i'm also getting hit by a 
 few with an axe to grind.  that's life.
 
 chromium is one of the trace elements.  it has a very limited(but very 
 important) role in the body.  it is used to form glucose tolerance factor
 (gtf).  gtf is made up of chromium, nicinamide(niacin), glycine, cysteine 
 and glutamic.  only the chromium and the niacin are needed from the diet to 
 form gtf.  some foods already have gtf(liver, brewers or nutritional yeast,
 and black pepper).  when chromium is in gtf, a pretty good absorption is 
 seen(about 20%).  but when it is simply present as a mineral or mineral 
 chelate(chromium picolinate) it's absorption is much lower(1 to 2%, lowest 
 for all the minerals).  i've been posting in misc. fitness and chromium has 
 come up there several times as a "fat burner".  chromium is among the least 
 toxic of the minerals so you could really load yourself up and not really 
 do any harm.  i wouldn't do it though.  the adequate and safe range for 
 chromium is 50 to 200ug per day.  the average american is getting about 
 30ug per day from his/her diet.  chromium levels decrease with age and many 
 believe that adult onset diabetes is primarily a chromium deficiency.  i 
 can cite you several studies that have been done with glucose tolerance in 
 type ii diabetes but i'm not going to because for each positive one, there 
 also seems to be a negative one as well.  i'm convinced that the problem is 
 bioavailability.  when yeast(gtf) is used, good results are obtained but when 
 chromium itself is used the results are usually negative.  in addition to 
 type ii diabetes, chromiuum has been examined in cardiovascular disease and 
 glucoma, again with mixed results as far as cardiovascular disease is 
 concerned
 
 since a high blood glucose level can lead to cardiovascular disease, 
 this possible link with chromium isn't too surprising.  glucoma is a little 
 more interesting.  muscle eye focusing activity is primarily an insulin 
 responsive glucose-driven metabolic function.  if this eye focusing activity 
 is impaired(by a lack of glucose due to a poor insulin response), intraocular 
 pressure is believed to be elevated.  in a fairly large study of 400 pts with 
 glaucoma, the one consistent finding was a low rbc chromium. j. am. coll. 
 nutr. 10(5):536,(1991).  but this one preliminary study should not prompt 
 people to go out and start popping chromium supplements.  for one thing, 
 just about every older person is going to have a low rbc chromium unless 
 they have been taking chromium suppleemnts(yeast).  since glucoma is often 
 found in older people, it's not too surprising that chromium was low in the 
 rbc's.  if chromium supplementation could reverse glucoma, that would 
 prompt some attention.  i suspect that there will be a clinical trail to 
 check out this possible chromium link to glucoma.
 
 you could find out what your body chromium pool size was by either the rbc 
 chromium test or hair analysis.  most clinical labs are not going to run a 
 rbc chromium.  there are plenty of labs that will do a hair and nail 
 analysis for you, but i wouldn't use them.  there is just too much funny 
 business going on in these unregulated labs right now.
 
 here's weinsier and morgan, advise on chromium.  they do not consider 
 chromium to be one of those minerals for which a reliable clinical test is 
 available(they don't like the hair and nail analysis labs either, and they 
 also recognize the rbc chromium is primarily a research test that is not 
 routinely available in most clinical chemistry labs).  this has to change 
 and as more labs run a rbc chromiuum, it will.  what then do they suggest?
 make a diagnosis of chromium deficiency based on a documented clinical 
 response to chromium(run a glucose tolerance test before and after chromium 
 supplementation).  once you make the diagnosis, put the patient on 200ug of 
 crcl3 orally each day or 10grams of yeast per day.
 
 what's my advise?  don't take chromium supplements to try to loose weight
 (they just do not work that way).  if you want to take them and then 
 exercise, that would be great.  do include yeast as part of your diet(most 
 americans are not getting enough chromium from their diet).  if you do have 
 a poor glucose tolerance, ask your doctor to check your chromium status.  
 when he or she says, "what in the world are you talking about", just say, 
 please get a copy of weinsier and morgan's new clinical nutrition textbook 
 and do what they say to do with patients who present with a poor glucose 
 tolerance.  if you can't do that, i'll find a doctor who can, thank you 
 very much.
 
 marty b.
 