
 
 in a previous article, banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu () says:
 >least a few "enlightened" physicians practicing in the u.s.  it's really 
 >too bad that most u.s. medical schools don't cover nutrition because if 
 >they did, candida would not be viewed as a non-disease by so many in the 
 >medical profession.
 
 case western reserve med school teaches nutrition in its own section as
 well as covering it in other sections as they apply (i.e. b12
 deficiency in neuro as a cause of neuropathy, b12 deficiency in
 hematology as a cause of megaloblastic anemia), yet i sill
 hold the viewpoint of mainstream medicine:  candida can cause
 mucocutaneous candidiasis, and, in already very sick patients
 with damaged immune systems like aids and cancer patients,
 systemic candida infection.  i think "the yeast connection" is
 a bunch of hooey.  what does this have to do with how well
 nutrition is taught, anyway?
 >
 >here is a brief primer on yeast.  yeast infections, as they are commonly 
 >called, are not truely caused by yeasts.  the most common organism responsible
 >for this type of infection is candida albicans or monilia which is actually a 
 >yeast-like fungus.  
 
 well, maybe i'm getting picky, but i always thought that a yeast
 was one form that a fungus could exist in, the other being the
 mold form.  many fungi can occur as either yeasts or molds, 
 depending on environment.  candida exibits what is known as
 reverse dimorphism - it exists as a mold in the tissues
 but exists as a yeast in the environment.  should we maybe
 call it a mold infection?  a fungus infection?  maybe we
 should say it is caused by a mold-like fungus.
  
 > 
 >martin banschbach, ph.d.
 >professor of biochemistry and chairman
 >department of biochemistry and microbiology
 >osu college of osteopathic medicine
 >1111 west 17th st.
 >tulsa, ok. 74107
 >
 
 you're the chairman of biochem and micro and you didn't know 
 that a yeast is a form of a fungus?  (shudder)
 or maybe you did know, and were oversimplifying?
 