
 in article <cindy.349@berkp.uadv.uci.edu>, cindy@berkp.uadv.uci.edu (cindy windham) writes...
 >my mother has been advised to have a bone scan performed?  what is this
 >procedure for, and is it painful?  she's been having leg and back pain
 >which her gp said was sciatica.  her oncologist listened to her symptoms
 >and said that it didn't sound like sciatica, and she should get a bone
 >scan. 
 
 do i assume correctly from the above aricle that your mother has a historyy
 of cancer?  i was just wondeing, since you mentioned thhat she has an
 oncologist.
 
 a bone scan is a nuclear scan.  thperson receivving the scan is gven a
 dose of a radioactive tracer, and an imaging device is used to track the
 distribution of the tracer wwithin the body.  the tracer is usually given
 intravenously.  (iv) this means that the physician or his assistant will
 insert a needle into a vein and inject  medicine into the vein. 
 
 after a few minutes has passed for the tracer to circulate through the
 body, the person is scanned with an imaging device to detect high 
 concentrations of the tracer.  the radiologist or doctor is looking for
 areas that take up more of the radioactive tracer or less of it.
 
 as far as pain, the only pain comes from the needle stick that is required
 to start the iv line.
 
 what the doctor is probably looking for are changes in the bones that may
 have resulted from cancer.  this is also why i was wondering if your mother
 has had cancer, since cancer can spread from one site and wind up in the
 skeletal system.
 
 i hope i have answered some of your questions.  feel free to e-mail me if
 you have more questions related to the bone scan or anything else related
 to your mother's care.  i'm a newly graduated nurse, and i enjoy sharing
 information with other people to help them understand things that they did
 not know about before.
 
 my thoughts are with you both.
 
 elisa b. hanson   (picl25@fsphy1.physics.fsu.edu)
 "the chief function of the body is to carry the head around."
                                         --albert einstein
 
 