
 in article <1993apr30.162636.22327@cc.ic.ac.uk>,
 ewolff@ps.ic.ac.uk (erik the viking) writes:
 
 >hi.
 >
 >my wife has aquired some thyroidal (sp?) deficiency over the past year
 >that gives symptoms such as needing much sleep, coldness and proneness
 >to gaining weight. she has been to a doctor and taken the ordinary (?)
 >tests and her values were regarded as low. the doctor (and my wife) are
 >not very interested in starting medication as this "deactivates" the
 >gland, giving life-long dependency to the drug (hormone?).
 >
 ...
 >my questions are: has anyone had/heard of success in using this approach?
 >her values have been (slowly but) steadily sinking, any comment on the
 >probability of improvement? although the doctor has told her to 'eat
 >normally', my wife has dieted vigorously to keep her weight as she feels
 >that is part of keeping an edge over the illness/condition, may this
 >affect the treatment, development?
 >
 
 there are several different types of thyroid diseases which would cause
 a hypothyroid condition (reduction in the output of the thyroid, mainly
 thyroxin). except for ones caused by infections, the treatment is
 generally thyroxin pills. hypothyroid conditions caused by infections
 usually disappear when the infection does...this doesn't sound like the
 case with your wife.
 thyroxin orally does "shut down the thyroid" through a feedback loop
 involving the pituitary (i believe). the pituitary "thinks" that the
 correct amount of thyroxin is being produced so it doesn't have to
 tell the thyroid to produce more. this process is reversable! i have
 hashimoto's thyroiditis (an autoimmune condition) and was on thyroxin
 for approx 6 mo when my endocrinologist suggested i not take the pills
 for 6 wks. when i was retested for thyroxin levels, they were normal.
 i still get tested every 6mo because the condition might reappear.
 the pills are safe and have very few side-affects (& those mostly at
 beginning of treatment). having a baby might be a problem and would at
 least require closer monitoring of hormone levels.
 thyroxin controls energy production which explains sleepiness, coldness,
 and weight gain. there is also water retention (possibly around heart),
 changes in vision, and coarser hair and skin among other things.
 
 i am not a doctor, so i'm sure i mistated something, but the important
 thing is that thyroid problems are usually easily corrected and if they
 aren't corrected can cause problems in the rest of the body. get a
 second opinion from a good endocrinologist and have him/her explain
 things in detail to you and your wife.
 
 - eileen bauer
 