
 i've sent gordon r. my posts on protein, vitamin c and vitamin a prior to 
 posting on internet as a professional courtesy.  somehow i've managed to 
 delete my vitamin a post from my text file.  gordon r. had promised to send 
 it back to me but he's pretty mad at me right now so i'll just retype it.
 since digging through all my references is very time consuming(took me all 
 day for that pms post), i'm not going to cite any references(gordon r. has 
 them).  i'm going to include some of the material from weinsier and 
 morgan's new nutrition textbook(which was not in my original material) to 
 point out that what i'm going to say has some support in the medical 
 community.
 
 diet has been know to affect the immune system of man for a very, very long 
 time.  protein has always had the biggest role in infection and i've 
 already covered the role of protein in protecting you against infection.
 now i'm going to hit what i consider to be the most important nutrient in 
 the u.s. as far as infection is concerned(vitamin a).
 
 when vitamin a was originally discovered, it was commonly referred to as 
 the anti-infection vitamin.  many people(linus pauling being one) have 
 decided to take this title away from vitamin a and give it to vitamin c
 (which i've already covered).  big mistake(in my opinion).  vitamin a is 
 also getting a reputation as an anti-cancer vitamin(with good reason).
 the nci currently has numerous clinical trials in progress to see if 
 vitamin a can not only prevent cancer but cure it as well.  it's role in 
 both cancer and infection is almost identical(but not quite).
 
 vitamin a comes in two completely different forms(retinol and 
 beta-carotene).  retinol is the animal form and it's toxic, beta-carotene 
 is the plant form and it's completely nontoxic.  both retinol and beta-
 carotene display good absorption in the human gut if bile is present
 (60-80%).  the liver stores all of your retinol and doles it out for other 
 tissues to use by synthesizing retinol binding protein(rbp).  a normal human 
 adult liver should have 500,000iu to 1,000,000iu of retinol stored.  we 
 are born with 10,000iu in our liver.  u.s. autopsy has shown that about 
 30% of americans die with the same(or less) amount of vitamin a as they 
 were born with.  if you don't believe that nutritional reserves(like that 
 of retinol in the liver) are important, then this low vitamin a reserve is 
 not going to affect you.  but if you believe(like i do) that the nutrient 
 reserves are important, then there is a problem with vitamin a in the u.s.
 
 the u.s. rda for vitamin a in an adult male is 1,000 re or 5,000iu of 
 vitamin a.  for adult feamles its 800 re or 4,000iu of vitamin a.  diet 
 surveys show that most americans are getting this amount of vitamin a
 (either retinol or beta-carotene) from their diet.  but the nrc(national 
 research council) was going to release a new rda table in 1985 that had the 
 rda for both vitamin a and vitamin c raised(c to 90mg per day and a to 
 7,500iu per day for adult males).  that report and it's recommendations was 
 killed.  why? concern over the increasing supplementation was the main 
 reason.  rdas are set to prevent clinical disease, not to keep nutrient 
 reserves full.  many scientist in the u.s. feel that the time has come to 
 move away from the prevention of clinical pathology concept and move 
 towards the promotion of optimum health concept, especially since we have 
 some very good data now that show that nutrient reserves are extremely 
 important during periods of stress.  the nutritonal concervatives won that 
 battle and a new group of scientist were collected to come out with the 
 1989 rda list which lowered the rda for several nutrients and moved the 
 dietary guidelines back to where they were when we first started in the 
 1940's(get enough to prevent clinical pathology, but not enough to fill 
 the reserves).
 
 we know from autopsy that only about 10% of americans have a liver with a 
 normal vitamin a reserve(500,000iu to 1,000,000iu).  i preach nutrient 
 reserves to my students and tell them to measure them in their patients.
 but for vitamin a, only a liver biopsy(or autopsy data) will tell you how 
 much somebody has stored.  we can tell very easily if someone has 
 overfilled his or her liver with vitamin a by measuring the serium retinol 
 level(levels above 450ug/dl are highly suggestive that you have filled your 
 liver with vitamin a and it's time to stop taking retinol).  the normal 
 range of serum retinol will be 20-100ug/dl.  hypervitaminosis a is 
 diagnosed with a serum retinol level of 2,000ug/dl or higher(interpretation 
 of diagnostic test, wallach, m.d., a little brown series book).  this level 
 of vitamin a in blood means that medical attention is necessary due to 
 vitamin a toxicity.  weinsier and morgan take a much more conservative 
 approach to vitamin a toxicity than does wallach, as you will see later in 
 this post.  between 450ug/dl and 2,000ug/dl you should have plenty 
 of warning that it's time to eliminate the retinol from your diet(headache, 
 redness of the skin, hair loss, joint pain).
 
 i tell all my students that will use vitamin a in their practice that they 
 had better monitor the serum retinol level and stop when there are clear 
 signs that the liver is full.  you will never really know if the patient 
 needs the vitamin a(because you can not measure the pool in liver) but you 
 will always know when it's time to stop(just like in those vitamin a for 
 pms studies).
 
 beta-carotene can be taken to fill up your liver with retinol and you will 
 never have to worry about toxicity because the conversion of beta-carotene to 
 retinol that occurs in both your gut and your liver will slow down(stops in the 
 liver and slows down in the gut) when your liver is full of retinol.  but 
 taking beta-carotene as the source of retinol takes a very long time to 
 fill the liver up(i've seen estimates of 20-30 years) if you are in the 30% 
 that only has as much as you were born with in your liver(10,000iu).  one 
 other problem with beta-carotene, if you have a zinc deficit, you will not 
 convert as much beta-carotene to retinol in the gut or the liver because the 
 enxzyme that does this conversion requires zinc.  in addition, the release of 
 retinol from the liver is a zinc dependent process so a zinc deficit will 
 cause a vitamin a deficit even if your liver has plenty of vitamin a.
 
 now what does vitamin a do in cancer and infection protection?  the body 
 uses vitamin a(retinol) for many different things.  vision(the first to be 
 nailed down and where you see overt clinical pathology) uses the aldehyde
 (retinal) and alcohol(retinol) form of vitamin a.  reproduction uses the 
 retinol form  and some retinal.  infection and cancer protection uses 
 retinoic acid.  how do you convert retinol(which your white blood cells 
 and the mucosal cells get from blood) to retinoic acid?  you use enzymes, 
 one of which requires vitamin c(this is why pauling has tried to pull the 
 title of anti-infection vitamin away from vitamin a).  vitamin c does play 
 a role in infection(interferon production for example) but it's biggest role 
 is the conversion of retinol to retinoic acid.  if you increase your intake 
 of vitamin c, you will increase your formation of retinoic acid.  but 
 retinoic acid can not be converted back to retinol(as retinal can) and once 
 it's formed, it's used and then lost to the body.  this is why the 1985 nrc 
 group wanted to increase both vitamin c and vitamin a rda's.
 
 most people taking large amounts of vitamin c really think that they are 
 helping themselves.  if they don't have much vitamin a in their liver and 
 they are not also increasing their intake of vitamin a, they actually do 
 themselves more harm than good.
 
 retinoic acid functions in white blood cells to promote antibody formation.
 in the mucus membrane, it is the main factor in promoting good mucus 
 production and a good epithelial cell barrier to prevent infectious agents from 
 entering the blood system.  the mucus membrane is referred to as the "first 
 line" defense against infection.  for cancer, retinoic acid has been shown 
 to act as a cell brake(it counteracts the effect of cell promoters which 
 stimulate cells to divide).  cancer has two distinct steps, dna alteration 
 and cell promotion.  for cells that normally divide all the time, promoters 
 are not that important.  but for lung and breast tissue which does not 
 normally divide, promoters are real important in the malignant process.
 this is the major reason why the nci has so many different clinical trials 
 in progress using retinol and/or beta-carotene.
 
 chronic infection(irritation) of the mucus membranes is a signal that 
 vitamin a may not be adequate.  i tell my students that any patient who 
 walks into their office with a complaint of chronic infection has to be 
 worked up for vitamin a(along with the other factors that medicine already 
 has on it's list of causes for chronic infection).  i drive this home in my 
 course at the osteopathic college in tulsa, when i teach at the allopathic 
 medical school in tulsa(ou's branch campus) and when i give cme lectures.
 
 dark adaptation is the best clinical test for vitamin a status since night 
 vision is impacted when liver reverves drop to 50,000iu of retinol.  the 
 serum level of retinol can also be used, but it does not drop until liver 
 reserves drop below 10,000 to 20,000iu.  asking a patient if they have 
 trouble seeing at night is a good initial screen(if cataracts are ruled 
 out).  in one study done on u.s. spanish-americans where serum retinol levels 
 were measured, 25% of the sample population had a serum retinol level below 
 20ug/dl.
 
 as more studies are done on serum retinol levels in population groups of 
 the u.s. that have had a history of high infection rates, we will probably 
 see a much stonger correlation between infection incidence rates and low 
 serum retinol levels.
 
 what do weinsier and morgan have to say about vitamin a?  here are excerpts
 from their book:
 
 vitamin a functions in vision in the forrm of retinol, it is necessay for 
 growth and differentation of epithelial tissue, and is required for 
 reproduction, embryonic development, and bone growth.  protein-calorie 
 malnutrition and zinc deficiency may impair the absorption, transport, and 
 metabolism of vitamin a.  retinaldehyde is converted to retinoic acid, 
 which has biological activity in growth and in cell diferentiation but not 
 in reproduction or vision.  the most common procedure to evaluate vitamin a 
 status is to measure the retinol level in plasma or serum.  the normal 
 range for vitamin a content for a child is 20 to 90ug/dl.  lower values are 
 indicators of deficiency or depleted body stores.  serum levels greater 
 than 100ug/dl are indicative of toxic levels of vitamin a.  dark adaptation 
 tests and electroretinogram measurements are also useful but difficult to 
 perform on young children.  rapidly proliferating tissues are sensitive to 
 vitamin a deficiency and may revert to an undifferentiated state.  the 
 bronchorespiratory tract, skin, genitourinary system, gastrointestinal 
 tract and sweat glands are adversely affected.  a daily intake of more than 
 7.5mg(about 37,000iu) of retinol is not advised and chronic use of amounts 
 over 20mg(100,000iu) can result in a dry and itching skin, desquamation, 
 erythematous dermatitis, hair loss, joint pain, chapped lips, hyperostois
 (bony depositis), headaches, anorexia, edema and fatigue.  
 
 they recommend 30mg of retinol via im injection in children for vitamin a 
 deficiency but do not discuss treatment for adults.  their toxic serum retinol 
 level is very conservative.  i recommend that my students try 25,000iu in 
 adults that are having problems with chronic infection.  they have to rule 
 out a zinc deficit first by getting an rbc zinc run(or if their clinical 
 lab can't run it, i tell them to do what weinsier and morgan suggest, give 
 them the zinc along with the vitamin a.  at 25,000iu per day, toxicity 
 should not be a problem and you will not have to worry about pulling the 
 patient into the office on a regular basis to run a serum retinol.
 
 both elaine and jon found doctors who used a much higher dose of vitamin a.
 recall that the pms papers were using 100,000iu to 200,000iu of vitamin a.
 i don't suggest that my students use these high doses.  if you wanted to 
 fill the liver up fast(as part of a clinical trial) and were monitoring the 
 serum retinol level, then you would be okay.  but my knowledge of the 
 vitamin a literature suggests to me that 25,000iu for patients with a 
 demonstrated vitamin a deficit(dark adapatation test or serum retinol) will 
 provide a good and steady improvement(as long as zinc and vitamin c status 
 are good) without having to worry about toxicity.  if they want to get more 
 agressive, fine if they follow my advise to check the serum retinol.  but 
 vitamin a(retinol) should never be given in high dose to women who could 
 become pregnant since vitamin a shows teratogenicity towards the human 
 fetus.  the dose needed to show this effect on the developing fetus is 
 18,000iu of retinol per day.  beta-carotene will never have this effect on 
 the human fetus.
 
 could just taking beta-carotene instead of retinol supplements help?  yes 
 but the effect will take a long time to develop.  my advise is to use 
 retinol to fill the liver up and then switch to beta-carotene to keep it 
 full.  vitamin a is probably one nutrient that is better off left to 
 prescription by doctors.  but when we have the m.d.'s in this newsgroup 
 jumping all over me and other doctors that propose the use of vitamin a 
 supplements for treating patients with chronic sinus and gi distress, i 
 think that the most prudent option is to keep vitamin a in the otc market 
 but require manufactors to provide package inserts to educate the general 
 public about the dangers of vitamin a supplementation.
 
 marty b.
 
 