
 in article <jschwimmer.123.735362184@wccnet.wcc.wesleyan.edu> jschwimmer@wccnet.wcc.wesleyan.edu (josh schwimmer) writes:
 
    any opinions on burzynski's antineoplastons or information about the current 
    status of his research would be appreciated.
 
 burzynski's work is not too promising. none of his a-1 through a-5
 antineoplastons have been shown to have antineoplastic effects against
 experimental cancer. the nci conducted tests of a-2 and a-5 against
 leukemia in mice, with the result that doses high enough to produce
 toxic effects in the mice were not effective in inhibiting the growth
 of the tumor or killing it. (these were in 1983 and 1985)
 
 burzynski claims that a-10 is the active factor common to all of a-1
 and a-5 (something which he has not shown, a-10 has only been
 extracted from a-2. he also hasn't shown that a-1 through a-5 are actually
 distinct substances). the nci conducted a series of tests using a-10
 against a standard panel of tumors that included different cell lines
 from tumors in the following classes: leukemia, non-small-cell and
 small-cell lung cancer, colon cancer, cancer of the central nervous
 system, melanoma, ovarian cancer and renal cancer. a-10 exhibited
 neither growth inhibition nor cytotoxicity at the dose levels tested.
 
 it is necessary to process a-10 since it is not soluble (burzynski's
 theory requires soluble agents), but this basically hydrolizes it to
 pag (which he calls as 2.5). pag is not an information carrying
 peptide, something which byrzynski claims is necessary for
 antineoplastic activity. as 2.1 (also derived from a-10) is a 4:1
 mixture of pa and pag. pa (also not a peptide) can be purchased at a
 chemical supply houses for about $0.09 a gram. a-10 is chemically
 extremely similar to glutithamide and thalidomide, both of which are
 habit forming and can cause peripheral neuropathy. the nasty effects
 of thalidomide are widely known. in spite of this similarity, a-10
 does not appear to have been tested for it's potential to induce
 teratogenicity or peripheral neuropathy.
 
 many of burzynski's statements about the origin of his theory, early
 research, past and present support by others for his work have been
 shown to be untrue.
 
 
 sdb
 ---
 sdb@ssr.com
 
 