A SERVING officer has branded Sir Stephen House a “control freak” who has destroyed the principle of common sense policing by consent in Scotland.
The policeman, who is from the east coast area and has over 15 years service, spoke to the Record on condition of anonymity out of frustration at the Chief Constable’s reign.
And he claimed House wouldn’t be missed by the rank and file if, as expected, he steps down next year.
He said: “It is a sad thing to say, but Mr House is universally hated in the police service today.
“He will not be missed that is for sure.
“This guy is a complete control freak. In the 20 years I have been doing the job I have never wanted to do another job until Police Scotland came into force.
“Everyone is in the same boat, there are people jumping ship right left and centre because we have this culture that Mr House seems to have brought from his time at Strathclyde.
“I am being honset, in all my time on the force I had never heard the words ‘stop and search’ in Scotland before Mr House arrived.
“Up here we had policing by consent, this stop and search was an English phenomenon that he brought up from London.
“Mr House has brought a few of his cronies from down the road up to Scotland and they are ordering cops that they want ten searches every day.
“It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to realise that all these searches are coming up negative because the officers are just searching anyone they see to get the figures up.
“That has never happened before in my time, in the past it was always an intelligence led common sense approach.
“If you saw a drug dealer then you would stop him because you knew there was a high chance he had drugs on him, or if you saw a guy known to you acting suspiciously beside a close for example you would search him.
“That sort of common sense approach keeps the law abiding public on side because they feel the police are working for them not against them.”
 

House became the first chief constable of Police Scotland when the new single force was created in 2013.
His three-year contract is due to end in September 2016.
The officer added: “Over the last few years it has all become about targets and statistics and coming up with figures to impress the Scottish Government.
“I know one cop working in traffic and he was told by a senior officer to park outside new housing estates because people won’t have transferred their driving licence details over to their new address.
“They will be committing an offence so stop them and book them and record the stat.
“It is absolutely ridiculous and exactly the sort of thing that turns the public against the police.
“Another one was that cops are being told that if they see a builder’s van with the name and number on the side of it then they are to phone them up, and then book them for being on their phone if they answer it.
“The public are turning against the police because they are picking up on these things that never used to happen before.
“The way I was always taught was that you do a background check on someone, and if everything is coming up ok, they haven’t been in bother before, then education is always better than enforcement.
“That is the way it was always done before Mr House arrived and this compulsive need for figures.
“They crime figures don’t add up either in my view.
“An example is that if there is a racial crime and it’s not backed up with any corroborative evidence then it is being put down as a section 38 offense which is threatening and abusive language. However there is an independent witness it is put down as a racially aggravated incident.
“The reason is so that we can go to the Scottish Government and say that we have detected all our racially motivated crimes.
Are you a serving police officer with something to say? Call us in confidence on 0141 309 3251.
Try today's quick quiz:

