TOP police officers have been given a fleet of flash cars worth more than &pound;850,000.
The cars, including BMWs, Audis and Land Rovers, were &shy;allocated to officers of the rank of chief superintendent and above – with their partners also insured to drive them if they wish.
Details of the Police Scotland spend emerged after a Freedom of Information request, which showed that 31 top officers have been given cars for private use.
The figures provoked criticism from the Scottish Lib Dems, who have been scathing about Police Scotland’s spending &shy;priorities.
Scottish Liberal Democrat justice spokeswoman Alison McInnes said: “Company cars are a common perk but when we are talking about taxpayers’ money, it is &shy;important that we get value for money.

“Last week, the chief constable warned there are gaps in Police &shy;Scotland’s budget that demand ‘extreme measures’ to be taken.
“Under these circumstances, the public will rightly question whether it is right to spend so much money on top-end &shy;vehicles for senior staff.
“They need to consider their &shy;priorities.”
Police Scotland’s head of information &shy;management Iain Gray said: “Owing to the nature of the role undertaken by senior staff members, a &shy;significant degree of flexibility is essential given that these &shy;individuals may be required to travel the country at short notice and, therefore, they are provided with a vehicle.
“It is worth noting that the &shy;vehicles remain a police service resource and can be used by any other &shy;business area when required.
 

“I can confirm vehicles have been &shy;allocated to some police officers of the rank of chief superintendent and above.
“Senior members of police staff of equivalent rank have also been allocated a vehicle.” Gray said the force would not identify the specific ranks of officers to benefit from the car perk.
He said: “While the identity of senior staff members is known publicly, their friends and families are not.
“The release of the specific vehicle details linked to the senior member of staff who utilises that vehicle, would or would be likely to, place those individuals in a &shy;compromising position, &shy;endangering their physical or mental health or safety.”

Try our quick news quiz below:

