DAVID Cameron today said Labour is facing a “wipeout” in Scotland and will be “replaced” by the SNP because it has failed to speak up for the concerns of ordinary voters.
The Prime Minister hit the campaign trail in Glasgow this morning for the party’s Scottish manifesto launch.
Polls suggest the SNP is poised to make sweeping gains from the SNP in next month’s UK election.
The Tory leader warned this would mean the “terrible prospect” of an Ed Miliband government propped up the SNP who would push for their goal of independence.
“Let me address directly this issue about the battle here in Scotland,” Mr Cameron told supporters at the Emirates Arena.
“The fact that Labour is facing a meltdown and is failing to speak out about peoples’ concerns - I’m responsible for many things, many, many things. The total failure of Labour in Scotland, you cannot lay at my doorstep.
“There’s a fact that every single pollster and commentator agrees on that come May 7, Labour are going to have a dreadful time in Scotland and they’re going to be replaced in many, many constituencies by the SNP.”
This means that Ed Miliband cannot become Prime Minister without SNP support, he added.
“That has a consequence for Scotland and it has a consequence for the rest of the United Kingdom,” the Tory leader went on.
“It is an appalling prospect of having a Labour prime minister propped up by a group of people who: A - don’t want to be in that Parliament; B - don’t want to be in that country: C - would like to see the whole thing break up.
“In the meantime they’re going to push for an economy wrecking, borrowing and spending agenda.
“I say this because the country really needs to hear this, voters need to think about this. The ballot papers are about to arrive on the doorsteps. You can stop this from happening, but you can only stop it by electing a Conservative majority government.”
Mr Cameron said two new facts had emerged during the election campaign.
He said: “Fact number one, The Labour party in Scotland is facing wipeout at the hands of the SNP.
“Fact number two the Liberal Democrats are facing wipeout in many parts of the country. What the means is that Ed miliband can only get into Downing Street on the back of support from the Scottish National Party who will exact a terrible price in terms of even more borrowing, even more spending, even more unlimited welfare, even weaker defences.
“That is the terrible prospect that this country faces.”
He added: “The only way you can stop this dreadful outcome is by voting Conservative in England, in Scotland, in Wales and in Northern Ireland. We are the only people that can stop this from happening.”

