 The Scottish Football Association is still waiting for evidence from Dave King to prove he passes the &quot;fit and proper&quot; test to become Rangers chairman, says SFA chief Stewart Regan. 
 King, who wrested control of the club at an extraordinary general meeting last month, owns 14.5% of the shares. 
 The Court of Session has cleared his application to become a club director. 
 However, Regan said: &quot;We're seeking evidence and when we've got that evidence we'll deal with it.&quot; 
 King, together with Paul Murray and John Gilligan, were voted on to the board of Rangers International Football Club plc with backing from 85% of shareholders at the EGM. 
 &quot;We're in discussions with Rangers and their advisors and we are gathering information from the club and from Mr King, and when we have all of that information the board will consider it and decide whether or not we're prepared to accept Dave King as a fit and proper person to be the chairman of Rangers football club,&quot; said Regan. 
 &quot;We're not in a position to put a timescale on it, when we've got the information we'll decide.&quot; 
 Murray is acting as the club's interim chairman as King awaits a verdict from the SFA. 
 However, Regan revealed Murray is in the same situation as King as far as passing the 'fit and proper' test is concerned. 
 &quot;It's obviously a challenge for him and the club to try and present a case whereby the board can view it positively, but that's what the club are seeking to do,&quot; Regan said. 
 &quot;They're providing evidence and when we've got that evidence we'll be in a position to comment more fully. 
 &quot;Basically, any evidence from Mr King that would support why he believes he is fit and proper in consideration to the list of criteria in our article 10 which covers all of the areas regarding track record, background, etc, etc. 
 &quot;Paul Murray equally is being considered given that he was a director of a football club in an insolvency in the previous five years.&quot; 
 In August 2013, King was convicted on 41 counts of breaching S. 75 of the South African Income Tax Act. 
 He had to hand over R706.7m (more than &pound;40m) to the South African Revenue Service (SARS) for personal income tax and was sentenced to a fine of R80,000 (about &pound;4,500) or 24 months in prison for each of the 41 counts on which he was found guilty. 
 Upon hearing his application had been cleared by Court of Session, he said: &quot;[The] decision has removed the final legal hurdle for me to take up my role on the board following the overwhelming mandate at the general meeting. 
 &quot;I have fully co-operated with the SFA over the last few weeks and thank them for the care and attention with which they have undertaken this task. 
 &quot;I must be the most scrutinised candidate in Scottish football history, but accept this as being preferable to the lack of scrutiny that has been the case in Rangers' recent past - and possibly other clubs. 
 &quot;I hope that matters can be swiftly concluded now that, with the permission of the court, I can take up my role as a director of RIFC.&quot; 
