 A DRUNKEN Scots businessman sparked an airline emergency after filling his boots at a corporate day out to watch his heroes Manchester United . 
 Graham Leonard’s trip to Old Trafford – nicknamed the Theatre of Dreams – turned into a nightmare when his  celebrations resulted in him causing a red alert at Aberdeen International Airport. 
Boisterous Leonard had tried to sing football songs through the public address system on the flight home and, once inside the airport, had triggered a fire alarm which led to an emergency evacuation and shutdown.
Yesterday, shamed father-of-two Leonard, 46, who runs his own painting and decorating firm, appeared in the dock at Aberdeen Sheriff Court and was warned he could be jailed.
The court was told Leonard was a successful businessman in the city who has regularly joined other well-heeled fans on charter flights to Old Trafford and other grounds across Europe and South Africa to support the Red Devils.
On Sunday, March 15, Leonard left Aberdeen on an Eastern Airways flight to see his team beat Tottenham Hotspur 3-0 in a Premier League fixture.
Before the big game, Leonard and fellow passengers had enjoyed hospitality at a Manchester hotel, where former United stars were present as part of the corporate entertainment.
The group enjoyed rubbing shoulders with ex-players, managers and famous United fans before the match.
On the return flight, Leonard was one of three passengers who delayed its take-off, and once on the plane he asked a stewardess if he could sing on the PA system. She told him he couldn’t.
But Leonard started singing anyway and, despite being asked to stop, he carried on.
Members of the cabin crew told him the PA system was strictly for use by the captain for emergency communication, but their protests were ignored.
Later, a stewardess handed out wet hand towels and Leonard threw one of them back at her, which landed on her head.
When the plane touched down a group, including the accused, were seen talking into the PA system and inside the airport Leonard was seen activating a fire alarm.
 

Automatic fire doors closed and 40 people were evacuated from the terminal building.
Emergency services, including fire crews, were scrambled before it was discovered the fire alert was malicious.
 Leonard, of Newmachar, Aberdeenshire, admitted behaving recklessly or negligently and “endangering an aircraft” by  repeatedly using the PA system and striking one of the flight crew on the head with a wet towel. 
He also admitted behaving in a threatening and abusive manner likely to cause fear and alarm among others and triggering the fire alarm.
Solicitor Gregor Kelly, defending, said Leonard was “mortified” by what he said was out-of-character behaviour brought on by drinking and his high spirits at the time.
He added that Leonard had been downing gin and tonics and beer at the special corporate event where they were entertained by the ex-players and celebrities.
He said Leonard had got “carried away” and was “extremely apologetic”. His memory of events was “somewhat blurred”.
Kelly added: “He is fully aware that this lady should not have been subjected to this kind of conduct and he apologises unreservedly.
 “He has somewhat carried the can as some others were also under the influence.” Leonard, he said, was a respectable  businessman who employed 20 staff at his firm. 
Sheriff Edward Savage called for a social background report into Leonard and said he was considering “all options” open to him.
He said the extremely serious nature of the offences had forced him to consider whether a financial punishment was enough.

