A MOTHER whose daughter killed herself after being beaten by a serial domestic abuser has hit out after he was spared jail.
Margaret Crainey’s daughter Gillian McAuley, 38, committed suicide after being subjected to abuse at the hands of Sean Lees.
Lees, 49, brutally attacked care worker Gillian - who was unaware of his violent past - during a caravan holiday.
She was left terrified of the violent plant operator and was found dead at her home in Kilsyth, Lanarkshire, by her mum in October, 2012.
Following her death, Margaret spoke to police officers about Lees and a former girlfriend of his came forward to claim he had also attacked her.
Lees, of Kilsyth, was found guilty last month of attacking Gillian and three other assaults on ex-partner Gwen Dingwall.
 

A trial at Airdrie Sheriff Court heard Gillian give evidence from beyond the grave to help convince a jury of his guilt.
But yesterday(thurs) Lees walked free from court after a sheriff ordered him to carry out 250 hours of unpaid work and put him on probation for two years.
Speaking outside court, furious Margaret said: “I am absolutely gutted by the sheriff’s decision.
“Justice has not been served for my daughter.
“For him to put her and another woman through hell and not get some punishment is a disgrace.
“I am finding it really hard without Gillian and this has just broken my heart.
“I did everything I could to bring Sean Lees to court and get justice for her and he has walked away free.
“This sends out the wrong message to other women who are thinking about reporting domestic abuse.”
Lees’ defence solicitor Ross Brown said social workers had recommended Brown would benefit from a supervision order.
He added: “He is a man of 49 years of age and he has been considerably effected by this whole prosecution.”
Sentencing Lees, Sheriff Morag Galbraith said: “The matter you were convicted of remains very serious.
“The assaults on Gwen Dingwall and Gillian McAuley were deliberate and unprovoked by either of the women concerned.
“However, I am satisfied that this matter can be dealt with in a way other than a custodial sentence.”
Margaret had told how she blamed Lees for her daughter’s death.
The carer, of Kilsyth, said: “I had to walk in the house and find Gillian dead, it was absolutely devastating. She had hanged herself.
“There is no doubt in my mind that Sean Lees drove her to her death.
 

“Her death has left a big void in our family and I miss her every day.
“Gillian was a happy, bubbly, caring person until she met him. Her personality totally changed and she seemed very vulnerable and frightened.
“I could tell she was having a lot of trouble with him.”
Lees, a former neighbour of hers, dated Gillian for more than a year after they met in 2011.
He attacked her at a caravan in Callander, Stirlingshire, in June, 2012, by hitting her on the face and dragging her around by her hair.
His trial heard a tape of a harrowing 999 call Gillian made from the caravan to emergency services pleading for help.
In the recording, she said: “Could I have assistance? I have a very aggressive boyfriend and I need to go home.
“I just want to go home, please can somebody help me.
“He’s beating me up, please can you help me.”
Lees claimed that the women had tried to attack him and that he had acted in self-defence by merely pushing them away.
He refused to comment.

