 POLICE in Kilmarnock are investigating a serious sexual assault on a 16-year-old girl. 
The victim was walking with three men when one of them separated her from the group and assaulted her in an archway close to John Finnie Street and Nelson Street.
It happened at around 2am on Saturday.
Following the assault the man joined the other two men who headed towards Kilmarnock town centre. The woman reported the incident to police a few days later.
The suspect is white, medium height, in his early 20s and has brown hair. He was wearing a black jumper with the sleeves pulled up , dark jeans and brown shoes.
The two other men that police also want to find are both white, in their early 20s and of medium height. One was wearing a blue hooded sweatshirt with 'Jack and Jones 1975' written on it. He was wearing blue jeans and white trainers.
The third man was wearing a red and blue hooped t-shirt with blue jeans.
Detective Inspector Stevie Wallace said: &quot;This was a horrendous ordeal for a young woman to have to experience and it is critical that we trace this man as soon as possible.
&quot;I would like to reassure the community that our officers are doing everything they can to find the person responsible. Incidents like this are extremely rare in our town. However we need help from members of the public who may have vital information to assist with the investigation.
&quot;I ask that anyone who might recognise the suspect description or the other two men gets in touch with any information.
&quot;It's possible they may have been out and about in Kilmarnock town centre earlier on in the night, hailed a taxi on John Finnie Street on their way home or attended at fast food takeaway shops later in the evening.
&quot;I would also urge anyone who was in the surrounding area around that time who may have seen or heard anything suspicious to contact police.
&quot;Officers are currently at the scene. Available CCTV is being analysed and we are also conducting door to door enquiries in the area.
&quot;Extra patrols will be present in the area during the enquiry. We also encourage those who live in the community to approach those officers should they have any information.&quot;
Anyone with information can contact officers on the non-emergency 101 number or anonymously via Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

