FRANTIC family of a Scots backpacker missing in earthquake-hit Nepal were “praying for news” of his safety.
Aberdeen-born Mitchell Carpenter, 23, is on the final leg of a year-long trip around Asia.
 His family fear he has been caught up in the unfolding tragedy after a massive 7.8 magnitude tremor struck the area on Saturday. 
They haven’t heard from Mitchell, now based in Bracknell, Berkshire, since Thursday when he spoke to his parents, Nigel and Kay, via Skype.
He told them he was in the Dharapani area in the north of the country and was looking forward to coming home next month.
It’s estimated more than 3200 people have been killed in the worst earthquake in Nepal for more than 80 years.
Mitchell has visited India, Thailand and Vietnam as part of his backpacking tour with long-term girlfriend Laura Clarke.
She came back to the UK in December while her boyfriend continued his journey.
Mitchell’s anguished step-sister Rachel McBride, 41, who lives in the Aberdeenshire village of Newtonhill said they’re “praying for news”.
 

Rachel, a school nurse, said: “I heard from him around Christmas time and he was saying that he was out there having a great time.
“The chance to go travelling came up last year so he just jumped at it before he settled down and had a family and everything.
“Laura went on part of the trip with him but she came home around Christmas.
“He’s quite bad at keeping in touch so I’m really hoping he just can’t get a signal just now.
“He’s such a great boy- it really breaks your heart.
“You hear about these things on the news but you don’t realise what it’s like until it happens to you.”

Mitchell’s brother, Marcus, 43, who works at Heathrow Airport, said his brother left Aberdeen at the age eight.
But he said he was still “a proud Aberdonian” who would don a kilt at special occasions.
Marcus said: “His dad worked in the oil and gas but got a job down south so moved the family there.
“Mitchell always said he’s Scottish and from Aberdeen – after Liverpool, Aberdeen FC are his second team.”
His mum Kay posted online: “Mitch, We are frantic with worry. Please be safe.
“Praying to hear from you. We love you. Mum xxx”
Two Aberdeen University medical students are said to be “safe but stranded” on Mount Everest, the world’s highest mountain.
 Joseph Feeney, from Coatbridge, and Calum Henderson, from Edinburgh, both 21, were on a trekking trip to Nepal as a treat after passing their third year exams . 
 

Joseph’s father, Dr James Feeney said: “They [the boys] say this teahouse is mobbed to the rafters with people coming off the mountain.
“They’ve been given hospitality by the locals and their guide.
“The boys have been told that they’re really lucky because another couple of days and they would have been further up the mountain and they wouldn’t have got back down.
“The landslide would have blocked them off.
“But they’re fine, they’re just a bit shook up. They’re just wondering how they’re going to get home.
“Looking at the TV screens and seeing what could have happened to them, me and my wife, we’re just counting our blessings – Thank God.”
An Aberdeen University spokesman said: “We are glad to hear reports that Joseph and Calum are safe.
“The university will offer appropriate support to any of our students affected by the Nepal earthquake as required.”
 
 
