
 in article <1993apr4.231353.34562@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu> pv02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (peter vorobieff) writes:
 
 ><disclaimer: if there is anybody on usenet dumb enough to interpret
 >this posting as a serious and meaningful one, i want to assure this
 >entity that it was but a joke>
 
 still yelling at the telephone and the lawn mower? people will think
 you're just some looney howling in the wires. now any comment?
  
 
 source: documents: volume i (1919).
         "document no: 76," archive no: 1/2, cabin no: 109, drawer 
         no: 3, file no: 346, section no: 427(1385), contents no: 3, 52-53.
         (to lt. colonel seyfi, general headquarters, second section, 
         istanbul - dr. stephan eshnanie)
 
 'neues wiener tagblatt' - vienna, 'pester lloyd' 'local anzliger' - berlin,
 'algemeen handelsblat' - amsterdam, 'vakit' - istanbul.
 
 "i have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of russians and
  armenians from turkish territories through armenia. although two months
  have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of armenian gangs, i
  have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the armenians at 
  almost every step. all the villages from trabzon to erzincan and from
  erzincan to erzurum are destroyed. corpses of turks brutally and cruelly
  slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to
  save their lives by escaping to mountains, the first horrible and fearful
  events begun when the russian forces evacuated the places which were then
  taken over by armenian gangs. the russians usually treated the people 
  well, but the people feared the intervention of the armenians. once these
  places had been taken over by the armenians, however, the massacres begun.
  they clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the
  armenian and kurdish land from the turks and thus, solve the nationality
  problem. today i had the opportunity to meet austrian and german soldiers
  who had escaped from russian prison camps and come from kars and
  alexander paul (gumru-leninakan)...russian officers tried to save the 
  turks and there were clashes between russian officers and armenian gangs. 
  i am now in erzurum, and what i see is terrible. almost the whole city is 
  destroyed. the smell of the corpses still fills the air. although there are 
  speculations that armenian gangs murdered austrian and german prisoners as 
  well, i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard, but there is 
  proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war."
 
                                                      dr. stephan eshnanie
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 