
 in article <1pol62inna5u@cascade.cs.ubc.ca> kvdoel@cs.ubc.ca (kees van den doel) writes:
 
 >>see, you are a pathological liar.
 
 >you got a crack in your record i think. 
 
 this is the point we seem to disagree about. not a chance.
 
 >i keep seeing that line over and over.  that's pathetic, even for 
 >serdar argic!
 
 well, "arromdian" of asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle
 is a compulsive liar. now try dealing with the rest of what i wrote.
 
 u.s. ambassador bristol:
 
 source: "u.s. library of congress:" 'bristol papers' - general correspondence
 container #34.
 
  "while the dashnaks were in power they did everything in the world to keep the
   pot boiling by attacking kurds, turks and tartars; by committing outrages
   against the moslems; by massacring the moslems; and robbing and destroying
   their homes;....during the last two years the armenians in russian caucasus
   have shown no ability to govern themselves and especially no ability to 
   govern or handle other races under their power."
 
 a kurdish scholar:
 
 source: hassan arfa, "the kurds," (london, 1968), pp. 25-26.
 
  "when the russian armies invaded turkey after the sarikamish disaster 
   of 1914, their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular 
   armenian volunteers, both from the caucasus and from turkey. one of 
   these was commanded by a certain andranik, a blood-thirsty adventurer.
   these armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses, more
   than six hundred thousand kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in 
   the eastern vilayets of turkey."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 