
 in article <1993apr5.211146.3662@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu> jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (joel furr) writes:
 
 >i dunno, warren.  just the other day i heard a rumor that "serdar argic"
 >(aka hasan mutlu and ahmed cosar and zumabot) is not really a turk at all,
 >but in fact is an armenian 
 
 1/64th or 63/64th?
 
 i must congratulate your analytical and excellent
 reportage about  diana. from  the writings  of tye
 biographers  you  quoted,  i can  perceive,  maybe
 chauvinistically,  the  remnants of  her  armenian
 genes. even  though she  is only  1/64th armenian,
 she   seems   to   have   many   of   the   strong
 characteristics  of armenian  women. her  armenian
 ancestry is  traced to eliza kewark  (an armenian
 from  india), who  married  the scottish  merchant
 thedore forbes.  from the union was  born kathleen
 scott  forbes,  who  married  james  crombie  from
 aberdeen. they  had a  daughter jane,  who married
 david  littlejohn.  their  daughter  ruth  married
 william gill. ruth silvia gill, the grandmother of
 lady  diana,   married  lord  fermoy,   and  their
 daughter, frances  ruth burke roache,  married the
 eight earl of spencer, who  was the father of lady
 diana. it is noteworthy  that eliza kewark was also
 referred  to as  mrs. forbesian  (a characteristic
 armenian  surname  ending).  an  armenian-scottish
 gene mix is dynamite.
 
 levon k. topuzian
 assistant professor
 northwestern university
 skoie, illinois.
 
 time, december 21, 1992 'letters'
 
 >who is attempting to make any discussion of the
 >massacres in armenia of turks so noise-laden as to make serious discussion
 >impossible, thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud
 >of confusion.  
 
 you have set up straw horses and knocked them down. i'm not impressed.
 anyway, the armenians tore apart the ottoman empire's eastern provinces,
 massacred 2.5 million defenseless turkish women, children and elderly 
 people, burned thousands of turkish and kurdish villages and exterminated 
 the entire turkish population of the armenian dictatorship between 
 1914-1920. such outrageous sleight of hand that is still employed today 
 in armenia brings a depth and verification to the turkish genocide 
 that is hard to match. a hundred years ago armenians again thought 
 they could get whatever they wanted through sheer terror like the 
 russian anarchists that they accepted as role models. several armenian 
 terror groups like asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle 
 resorted to the same tactics in the 1980s, butchering scores of innocent
 turks and their families in the united states and europe. it seems that 
 they are doing it again, at a different scale, in fascist x-soviet armenia 
 today.
 
 
 source: stanford j. shaw, on armenian collaboration with invading russian
 armies in 1914, "history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey (volume
 ii: reform, revolution & republic: the rise of modern turkey, 1808-1975)."
 (london, cambridge university press 1977). pp. 315-316.
 
 "in april 1915 dashnaks from russian armenia organized a revolt in the city 
  of van, whose 33,789 armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population, 
  closest to an armenian majority of any city in the empire...leaving erivan 
  on april 28, 1915, armenian volunteers reached van on may 14 and organized 
  and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
  the next two days while the small ottoman garrison had to retreat to the
  southern side of the lake."
 
 "knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions,
  armenians looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their aims.
  armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the first
  world war with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuse
  to serve their state, the ottoman empire, and to assist instead other
  invading russian armies. their hope was their participation in the russian
  success would be rewarded with an independent armenian state carved out of
  ottoman territories. armenian political leaders, army officers, and common
  soldiers began deserting in droves."
 
 "with the russian invasion of eastern anatolia in 1914 at the beginning of
  world war i, the degree of armenian collaboration with the ottoman's enemy
  increased drastically. ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks,
  armenian revolutionaries armed armenian civil populations, who in turn
  massacred the muslim population of the province of van in anticipation of
  expected arrival of the invading russian armies."
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 