
 in article <iacovou.734063606@gurney> iacovou@gurney.cs.umn.edu (neophytos iacovou) writes:
 
 >>>   historically even the most uncivilized of peoples have exhibited 
 >>>   signs of compassion by allowing humanitarian aid to reach civilian
 >>>   populations. even the nazis did this much.
 
 >>is the world community really so powerless? where are all those human 
 >>rights advocates? where are all the decent people? are we going to 
 >>let this human tragedy go on and do nothing about it? the number
 >>of azeris murdered by the terrorist armenian army and its savage
 >>gangs is increasing. 
 
 >   news reporters make their living by providing stories, and there is
 >   so way in hell that they are going to confuse the public with
 >   what is happening in armenia (a country that few know of), and
 >   risk detracting people's interest from what is happening in serbia.
 
 then you must be living in an alternate universe. where were they?
 
                 an appeal to mankind
 
 during the last three years azerbaijan and its multinational
 population are vainly fighting for justice within the limits of
 the soviet union. all humanitarian, constitutional human rights
 guaranteed by the un charter, universal declaration of human
 rights, helsinki agreements, human problems international forums,
 documents signed by the soviet union - all of them are violated.
 
 the ussr's president, government bodies do not defend azerbaijan
 though they are all empowered to take necessary measures to
 guarantee life and peace.
 
 the 140,000 strong army of armenian terrorists with moscow's
 tacit consent wages an undeclared war of annihilation against
 azerbaijan. as a result, a part of azerbaijan has been occupied
 and annexed, hundreds of people killed, thousands wounded.
 
 some 200,000 azerbaijanis have been brutally and inhumanly
 deported from the armenian ssr, their historical homeland.
 together with them 64,000 russians and 22,000 kurds have also
 been driven out, a part of them now settled in azerbaijan.
 some 40,000 turkish-meskhetians, lezghins and representatives 
 of other caucasian nationalities who escaped from the central
 asia where the president and government bodies did not guarantee
 them the life and peace also suffered from these deportations.
 
 one of the scandalous vandalisms directed not only against
 azerbaijan science but the world civilization as well is the
 armenian extremists' destruction of the karabakh scientific
 experimental base of the institute of genetics and selection 
 of the academy of sciences of the azerbaijan ssr.
 
 we beg you for humanitarian help and political assistance,
 for the honour and dignity of 7 million azerbaijanis are
 violated, its territory, culture  and history are trampled,
 its people are shot. there is persistent negative image of
 azerbaijanians abroad, and this defamation is spread over 
 the whole world by soviet mass media, armenian lobby in the
 ussr and the united states. 
 
 one of the myths is that all events allegedly involves and
 generated by interethnic collisions and religious intolerance
 while the truth is that all these shootings and recent 
 events stem from the territorial claims of armenia on
 azerbaijan.
 
 it is a well documented fact that before the conflict there
 were no frictions between armenians and azerbaijanis on the
 issue of karabakh. hundreds and thousands armenians placidly
 and calmly lived and worked in azerbaijan land, had their
 representatives in all government bodies of the azerbaijan
 ssr.
 
 we are for a united, indivisible, sovereign azerbaijan, we 
 are for a common caucasian home proclaimed in 1918 by one
 of the founding fathers of the azerbaijan democratic 
 republic - muhammed emin rasulzade.
 
 but all these goals and expectations are trampled upon the
 soviet leadership in favour of the armenian expansionists
 encouraged by moscow and intended to create a new '1,000
 year reich' - the 'great armenia' - by annexing the 
 neighboring lands.
 
 the world public opinion shed tears to save the whales,
 suffers for penguins dying out in the antarctic continent.
 
 but what about the lives of seven million human beings?
 if these people are muslims, does it mean that they are
 less valuable? can people be discriminated by their 
 colour of skin or religion, by their residence or other
 attributes?
 
 all people are brothers, and we appeal to our brothers
 for help and understanding. this is not the first appeal
 of azerbaijan to the world public opinion. our previous
 appeals were unheard. however, we still carry the hope
 that the truth beyond the russian and armenian propaganda
 will one day reveal the extent of our suffering and
 stimulate at least as much help and compassion for
 azerbaijan as tendered to whales and penguins.
 
 		the committee for people's help to 
                 karabakh (of the) academy of sciences 
                 of the azerbaijan ssr
 
 >   everyone knows this, even the turks know this, you know this. give
 >   us a time period when the world is currently boring, and what is
 >   happening in armenia would make front page headlines. think i'm lying?
 >   take a look at what happened in somalia. when did the press report
 >   it to the world?
 
 but perhaps turkiye should intervene in the affairs of the caucasus
 in the name of peace and democracy. the armenians are christians, the
 azerbaijanis are moslems, and islam is a religion especially unloved
 by the democrat-westernizers. besides, at the root of this conflict
 lie the territorial claims on azerbaijan, a consequence of which
 were the blood and suffering of innocent azeri people, hundreds of
 thousands of refugees, and gross violations of human rights. 
 
 recently armenians attacked the azeri town of khojaly and massacred
 thousands of azeris. the paris-based 'association for democracy and
 human rights in azerbaijan' puts the number of khojali victims
 at 3,145. some of the dead were scalped and mutilated. this whole
 thing has now gone entirely too far.
 
 >   want to know what will bring the story in armenia to the front
 >   page? if the russians move into the area with a shit load of tanks
 >   then your human rights advocates will show up defending the armenians.
 >   of course we can also be sure that the russians won't show up with 
 >   any tanks, not with the problems they are having at home.
 
 they already did. the scenario and genocide staged by the armenians 
 78 years ago in the ottoman empire is being reenacted again - this 
 time in azerbaijan. there are remarkable similarities between the 
 plots, the perpetrators, and the underdogs. 
 
 report taken from the new york times, tuesday, march 3, 1992
 
                     massacre by armenians being reported
 
      agdam,azerbaijan,march 2 (reuters) - fresh evidence emerged today 
 of a massacre of civilians by armenian militants in nagorno-karabakh, 
 a predominantly armenian enclave of azerbaijan.
      the republic of armenia reiterated denials that its militants had killed
 1,000 people in the azerbaijani populated town of khojaly last week and 
 massacred men, women and children fleeing the carnage across snow-covered
 mountain passes.
      but dozen of bodies scattered over the area lent credence to azerbaijani
 reports of a massacre.
 
                          scalping reported
      azerbaijani officials and journalists who flew briefly to the region
 by helicopter brought back three dead children with the back of their
 heads blown off. they said shooting by armenians has prevented them 
 from retrieving more bodies.
      "women and children have been scalped," said assad faradshev, an aide
 to nagorno-karabakh's azerbaijani governor. "when we began to pick up bodies,
 they began firing at us."
      the azerbaijani militia chief in agdam, rashid mamedov, said: "the bodies
 are lying there like flocks of sheep. even the fascists did nothing like this."
                          
                          truckloads of bodies
      near agdam on the outskirts of nagorno-karabakh, a reuters photographer,
 frederique lengaigne, said she had seen two trucks filled with azerbaijani
 bodies.
      "in the first one i counted 35, and it looked as though there were as
 many in the second," she said. "some had their head cut off, and many had
 been burned. they were all men, and a few had been wearing khaki uniforms.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 