
 
 deposition of vitaly nikolayevich danielian [1]
 
 
           born 1972
           attended 9th grade
           middle school no. 17
 
           resident at building 4/2, apartment 25
           microdistrict no. 3
           sumgait [azerbaijan]
 
 really, people in town didn't know what was happening on february 27. i came 
 home from school at 12 o'clock, being excused to leave before the last period 
 in order to go to baku. when we left, everything in town was fine. life was 
 the same as usual, a few groups of people were discussing things, soccer and 
 other things. then we got on the sumgait bus bound for baku for my first 
 cousin's birthday, my father, my mother, and i. we spent the day in baku, and 
 on the 28th, somewhere around 6:00 p.m., we got on the bus for home, figuring 
 that i'd have enough time to do my homework for the next day.
 
 when we were entering town, near the 12-story high-rises, our bus was stopped 
 by a very large crowd. the crowd demanded that the armenians get off the bus. 
 the driver says that there are no armenians on board; then everyone on the bus
 begins to shout that there are no armenians on board. the group comes up to 
 the doors of the bus and has people get out one by one, not checking 
 passports, just going by the way people look. we get off the bus, but are not 
 taken for armenians.
 
 we set out in the direction of home. at first we were going to go into an old 
 building where we knew there'd be a place to hide, but the whole road was 
 packed with groups of people, all the way from block 41 to the 8th 
 microdistrict. these groups were emptying people's pockets and checking
 passports. people who didn't have passports with them were beaten as well.
 then we decided to go home instead. near the 12-story high-rises i saw burning
 cars and a great many people standing around the driveways, yelling. "death to
 the armenians" was written on the cars.
 
 when we came into the courtyard--we live in an l-shaped building--it was still
 quiet. we went on upstairs, but didn't turn on any lights. we tried to call 
 baku to warn our relatives, who were due to arrive on wednesday, not to come. 
 then there was a knock at the door. it was our neighbors, who advised us to 
 come down to stay at their place. we went down to their place, and they led us
 to the basement. they live on the first floor and have a basement which you 
 enter across the balcony. we sat in the basement while an armenian woman was 
 beaten--she ran away naked. our neighbors' daughter said that that's right, 
 that's what the armenians deserve, because in stepanakert, allegedly, people 
 were being killed, 11 girls from agdam had been raped. we didn't stay very 
 long in the basement. we tried to support one another as best we could, 
 looking out the small window with the iron grating. papa watched and said 
 things now and then. he said that there was a fire near building 5, probably a
 car on fire. then one of the groups approached our driveway and demanded that 
 they be shown the apartments where armenians lived. the neighbors said that 
 there weren't any armenians here, and the group set out for the other wing of 
 the building. they appeared from the 5/2 side of the building, where, i later 
 found out, a woman had been murdered. the woman who ran away naked died. yuri
 avakian was killed, too.
 
 when the crowd left, the neighbors said that it was all over and we could go 
 home. we went back up to our place and again didn't turn on the light. we 
 started to gather up our things in order to leave sumgait for a while. we
 tried to call a relative who lived in sumgait, but there was no answer. we
 decided she had already left.
 
 we sat at home. the phone rang, and the caller asked to speak with my
 father. i called him to the phone. it was jeykhun mamedov, from my father's
 work brigade. he said he was disgusted by what was happening in our
 town. he asked for our address and promised to get a car and help us get
 out of the city. to be quite honest, papa didn't want to give him our address,
 but my mother got on the phone and told him. some 15 minutes after the
 call a crowd ran into our entryway. bursting into the building, they broke
 down the door and came into the apartment . . .
 
 they came straight to our apartment, they knew exactly where the armenians 
 were. they came into our place. we tried to resist, but there was nothing we 
 could do. one of them took my parents' passports and began to read them. he 
 read the surname "danielian," turned the page, read "armenian," and that alone
 was enough to doom us. he said that we should be moved quickly out into the 
 courtyard, where they would have done with us. another, standing next to him, 
 pushed some of the keys on the piano and said "your death has tolled." they 
 had knives and steel truncheons.
 
 i had a knife in my hand. unfortunately, i didn't use it. i just knew that if
 i didn't give up the knife things would be much worse. they struck my parents 
 and said that i should put the knife on the piano. then, one of them commanded
 that we be taken outside. one person was giving orders. when we were taken 
 outdoors i went in the middle, and my mother was behind me. someone started to
 push her so she'd walk faster; i let her go ahead of me, and fell in behind 
 her. when he tried to push me, i hit him, and at that moment they began 
 beating my parents; i realized that resistance was completely useless.
 
 we are taken out into the courtyard, and the neighbors are standing on their 
 balconies to see what will happen next. the crowd surrounds us. at first they 
 strike me, and i'm knocked out; when i come to, they beat me again . . . i 
 lose consciousness often . . . i don't see or hear my parents, since i was the
 first one hit and was out cold. when i come to i try to pick them up; they are
 lying next to me. the crowd is gone, the only people around are watching from 
 their balconies. that's it. i try to pick them up, but can't. my left arm is 
 broken. i start toward the drive, wanting to tell the neighbors to call an 
 ambulance. the bodies of my parents are still warm.
 
 we were attacked at around 9 o'clock. i regain consciousness at about 11 and 
 try to make it up the stairs home . . . when i knock at the neighbors' door, 
 they push me back and tell me to go away. i go up to the third floor, our 
 neighbor puts a damp cloth on my head and says she will call an ambulance; she
 sends her son off for one and takes me to our apartment. i often look out the 
 window to see if the ambulance has arrived, but i can't see very far as a 
 result of the blows, and it seems that my parents have already been taken 
 away. then i calm down and try to convince myself that they have been taken 
 away, and everything will be ok.
 
 but they were still there. later, at 8 in the morning as i found out, the
 ambulance picked them up, but they were already dead. if they received
 attention on time, it is possible they would still be alive. later, around 12 
 o'clock on the 29th, policemen in civilian clothing come to our house with 
 some "assistants." they call an ambulance, and 20 minutes later it arrives, 
 and i am taken to the sumgait emergency hospital. there they stitch the wounds
 on my head and rebind my arm. at 3 o'clock i and the other armenians who are 
 in the hospital are sent by ambulance to baku.
 
 in my ward at the sumgait hospital there were five people, all of them
 armenians. the hospital was nearly overflowing with armenians. the only
 azerbaijanis there were those whose car had flipped over before the events,
 before the 27th.
 
 then i was in the semashko hospital in baku. i was there 38 days. when i was 
 released, on the 40th day, i found out that my parents were dead. at first 
 they told me that they were in moscow being treated, but later i found out 
 that they were dead. my father's older brother told me.
 
 my father's name was nikolai artemovich danielian. he was born in 1938. my 
 mother, born in 1937, was seda osipovna danielian. papa worked at pmk-20, the 
 leader of the roofing brigade; mamma was a compressor operator.
 
 they were also beaten on the head. the coroner's report stated that their
 heads were smashed open and bled profusely.
 
 at the confrontation i met jeykhun mamedov, who had called. as it turned out 
 later, he had been the one who tipped the crowd off. he had called 
 specifically to find out if we were at home and to find out the exact address 
 and dispatch the group. he knew the phone number, but didn't know the address.
 before the events i had never seen him, but had often spoken with him on the 
 phone, when he would ask to speak with my father. i knew him by name. he 
 denies that i was the one who answered the phone, saying that my father 
 answered it. he denies that he called from a public phone, saying that he 
 called from home, which also isn't true. i heard noise and the sounds of 
 automobiles. as i later found out, earlier he had been convicted, but had 
 never served any time--he had received a suspended sentence. he was about 20 
 years old. i don't know if he has since confessed or not. i am sure that he 
 was the one who tipped the crowd off. one-hundred percent sure.
 
 my parents were from karabagh. father was from the village of badar, and was 
 two years old when his family moved to baku, where his elder brothers were to
 go to school. he was a student at the naval school, but never graduated. he
 went off to work on the virgin lands [one of the gigantic agricultural 
 projects instituted under khrushchev.] when he returned he lived in baku, and 
 later moved to sumgait, helping with the town's construction. mamma was from 
 the village of dagdagan, also from karabagh. she worked in sumgait, first in 
 a bookstore, and later, on a construction site.
 
 
 my sister is older than i. she lives with her husband here in karabagh. i
 always loved my parents. that was why i went on to 9th grade, because it
 was their dream that i would continue my studies. i finished 8th grade and
 wanted to enter the baku nautical school, and after that, the military
 school. but later i changed my mind, or rather, my parents got me to recon-
 sider, saying that it would be better to finish the 10th grade and then join 
 the naval school. i was planning to be in the navy almost my whole life
 long--since childhood i had dreamed of being a sailor. my father wanted it
 more than anything. he always recollected his youth, telling of the school,
 and he always said that he had made a big mistake in leaving it.
 
 now i live in karabagh and never plan to leave here. i will stay at the home 
 of my grandfather, of my ancestors, till the end of my days.
 
 while in the hospital in baku i learned the fates of many others who had
 suffered as well, like ishkhan [trdatov]. he managed to hold them off [at
 their residence in microdistrict 3, building 6/2, apartment 6.] for a long
 time, lost his father [gabriel], and by some miracle managed to survive. i
 also learned of uncle sasha, from building 5/2, whose daughter was raped
 
 . . . besides them, valery--i forgot his last name--was in the hospital too,
 about a year younger than i, he went to school no. 14. he was riding with
 his parents in the car. people were throwing rocks at them, he was hit, and
 his parents brought him to the hospital, and he was in our ward. we even
 came to be friends. before that we had just seen each other around town. but
 in the hospital we got to know one another better. i learned of the fates of
 others, those who had died, or who were befallen by misfortune . . .
 
 today suren harutunian, the first secretary of the communist party of armenia,
 was shown on television. to be honest i am glad that armenia agreed to 
 recognize nagorno karabagh as part of the armenian soviet socialist republic.
 i was repelled, no, revolted, to hear the baku announcer who read the decision
 of the azerbaijani supreme soviet presidium against karabagh becoming part of 
 armenia.
 
 after the events in sumgait and those in baku, the best solution is to give
 karabagh to armenia, return it to armenia, since the people want to live
 peacefully with the azerbaijanis, but everything has to be right before they
 can do that.
 
 i arrived in karabagh on april 11. i felt very bad. i had constant headaches.
 after a while my strength returned. my older sister, suzanna, took me in. i 
 think that justice should prevail; the people are demanding their due.
 
 you can't take away what is their due. my parents and i often spoke of nagorno
 karabagh, often visited here--spent almost all of my vacations here. we had 
 even decided that if karabagh would be made part of armenia, we would move 
 here for sure. we always said that the armenian people had suffered much, and 
 that what had been done in 1921--removing nagorno karabagh from armenia--was
 wrong. sooner or later, mistakes should be corrected. and in order to correct 
 a mistake, it must not be repeated; and the fate of all nagorno karabagh lies 
 in the hands of our government.
 
 june 13,1988
 
 stepanakert 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 