
 
          the orders for the turkish extermination of the armenians #17
     to the children of genocide: "send them away into the desert"
 
 this is part of a continuing series of articles containing official turkish 
 wartime (ww1) governmental telegrams, in translation, entailing the orders 
 for the extermination of the armenian people in turkey. generally, these
 telegrams were issued by the turkish minister of the interior, talaat pasha,
 for example, we have the following set regarding children:
 
 	"to the government of aleppo.
 
 	 november 5, 1915. we are informed that the little ones belonging to
 	 the armenians from sivas, mamuret-ul-aziz, diarbekir and erzeroum
 	 [hundreds of km distance from aleppo] are adopted by certain moslem
 	 families and received as servants when they are left alone through
 	 the death of their parents. we inform you that you are to collect
 	 all such children in your province and send them to the places of
 	 deportation, and also to give the necessary orders regarding this to
 	 the people.
 
 				minister of the interior,
 
 						talaat" [1]
 
 	"to the government of aleppo.
 
 	 september 21, 1915. there is no need for an orphanage. it is not the
 	 time to give way to sentiment and feed the orphans, prolonging their
 	 lives. send them away to the desert and inform us.
 
 				minister of the interior,
 						talaat" [2]
 
 	"to the general committee for settling and deportees.
 
 	 november 26, 1915. there were more than four hundred children in the
 	 orphanage. they will be added to the caravans and sent to their
 	 places of exile.
 
 	 				abdullahad nuri. [3]
 
 
 	"to the government of aleppo.
 
 	 january 15, 1916. we hear that certain orphanages which have been
 	 opened receive also the children of the armenians. whether this is
 	 done through the ignorance of our real purpose, or through contempt
 	 of it, the government will regard the feeding of such children or
 	 any attempt to prolong their lives as an act entirely opposed to it
 	 purpose, since it considers the survival of these children as
 	 detrimental. i recommend that such children shall not be received
 	 into the orphanages, and no attempts are to be made to establish
 	 special orphanages for them.
 
 				minister of the interior,
 
 						talaat." [4]
 
 	"to the government of aleppo.
 
 
 	 collect and keep only those orphans who cannot remember the tortures
 	 to which their parents have been subjected. send the rest away with
 	 the caravans.
 
 				minister of the interior,
 
 						talaat" [5]
 
 	"from the ministry of the interior to the government of aleppo.
 
 	 at a time when there are thousands of moslem refugees and the widows
 	 of shekid [fallen soldiers] are in need of food and protection, it is
 	 not expedient to incur extra expenses by feeding the children left by
 	 armenians, who will serve no purpose except that of giving trouble
 	 in the future. it is necessary that these children should be turned
 	 out of your vilayet and sent with the caravans to the place of
 	 deportation. those that have been kept till now are also to be sent
 	 away, in compliance with our previous orders, to sivas.
 
 				minister of the interior,
 
 						talaat" [6]
 
 in 1926, halide edip (a pioneer turkish nationalist) wrote in her memoirs
 about a conversation with talaat pasha, verifying and "rationalizing" this
 ultra-national fascist anti-armenian mentality, the following:
 
 	"i have the conviction that as long as a nation does the best for
 	 its own interest, and succeeds, the world admires it and thinks
 	 it moral. i am ready to die for what i have done, and i know i
 	 shall die for it." [7]
 
 
 these telegrams were entered as unquestioned evidence during the 1923 trial of
 talaat pasha's, assassin, soghomon tehlerian. the turkish government never
 questioned these "death march orders" until 1986, during a time when the world
 was again reminded of the genocide of the armenians.
 
 for reasons known to those who study the psychology of genocide denial, the
 turkish government and their supporters in crime deny that such orders were
 ever issued, and further claim that these telegrams were forgeries based on a
 study by s. orel and s. yuca of the turkish historical society.
 
 if one were to examine the sample "authentic text" provided in the turkish 
 historical society study and use their same forgery test on that sample, it 
 too would be a forgery!. in fact, if any of the tests delineated by the 
 turkish historical society are performed an any piece of ottoman turkish or 
 persian/arabic script, one finds that anything handwritten in such language is
 a forgery. 
 
 today, the body of talaat pasha lies in a tomb on liberty hill, istanbul,
 turkey, just next to the yildiz university campus. the body of this genocide 
 architect was returned to turkey from germany during ww2 when turkey was in a 
 heightened state of proto-fascism. recently, this monument has served as a
 focal point for anti-armenianism in turkey.
 
 this monument represents the epitome of the turkish government's pathological
 denial of a clear historical event and is an insult to a people whose only
 crime was to be born armenian.
 
 			- - - references - - -
 
 [1] _the memoirs of naim bey_, aram andonian, 1919, pages 59-60
 
 [2] ibid, page 60
 
 [3] ibid, page 60
 
 [4] ibid, page 61
 
 [5] ibid, page 61
 
 [6] ibid, page 62
 
 [7] _memoirs of halide edip_, halide edip, the century press, new york (and
     london), 1926, page 387
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 