
 in article <c4xcu3.401@polaris.async.vt.edu> jfurr@polaris.async.vt.edu (joel furr) writes:
 
 >do it.  depew has shown himself to be unrepentant (though embarrassed) and
 >still possessed of the same fucked-up hubris-laden self-righteousness that
 
 the theory is that the hollering kills the spirit of the criminal/nazi 
 armenians of the asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle. 
 now, try dealing with the rest of what i wrote.
 
 what is more, the activities of the armenian government seem to have been
 efforts aimed at eradicating a race (the turks) or aimed at carrying out a
 one-sided feud, instead of being a struggle for liberation. from the outset,
 the efforts of the armenian revolutionaries within the ottoman borders took
 the form of terrorist and destructive actions aimed at mass murder, cruelty
 and genocide, so that no other interpretation of them is possible. armenian
 activities started during the reign of abdulhamid ii as individual acts of
 terror, and then developed into assassinations and surprise attacks. the element
 of brute force in these activities increased steadily, culminating in mass
 rebellions and widespread fighting during the first world war. furthermore,
 when the ottoman army withdrew from eastern anatolia after the 1915 sarikamis
 defeat, armenian revolutionaries initiated a series of cruelties in this area.
 although the russians occupied eastern anatolia as an enemy, nevertheless they
 were constrained by the rules of war. however, when they returned to their
 country in 1917 after the revolution, armenian revolutionaries were unchecked
 in this area for about a year until the ottoman forces returned to erzurum
 in 1918. during this period, armenian revolutionaries executed massacres on
 the local people which is recorded in historical documents.[1]
 
 for example, let us look at a report dated 21 march 1918 which the commander
 of the third army submitted when he entered erzurum and erzincan: 
 
  "they were completely and systematically destroyed and burned down 
   by armenians, even the trees were cut down, and they are like a 
   building entirely consumed by fire in every sense of the word." 
 
 as for the people who had been living in erzurum and erzincan:
 
 "those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning
  with the excuse of forced labor in road construction, they were taken
  in the direction of sarikamis and annihilated. when the russian army
  withdrew, a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian
  massacres and cruelties: they were thrown into wells, they were locked
  in houses and burned down, they were killed with bayonets and swords, in places
  selected as butchering spots, their bellies were torn open, their lungs
  were pulled out, and girls and women were hanged by their hair after
  being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part 
  of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the
  cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering
  from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived
  in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.
  including women and children, such persons discovered so far do not
  exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in
  erzurum. all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled, everything
  that the people had has been taken away from them, and we found them
  in a destitute situation. at the present time, the people are subsisting
  on some food they obtained, impelled by starvation, from russian storages
  left behind after their occupation of this area."[2]
  
 foreign observers who witnessed the events, including russian officers
 who did not desert their lines, submitted detailed reports proving the
 genocide to ottoman commanders who received them as prisoners of war.
 what is most important is that they stated in their reports 'the 
 massacres did not happen by chance but were planned.'[3]
 
 at the end of the war, the german author dr. weiss, his austrian colleague
 dr. stein and his turkish colleague mr. ahmet vefik visited trabzon, kars,
 erzurum and batum between april 17th and may 20th 1918 to record the
 cruelties. their writings not only show the scope of armenian activities,
 but also reveal their goal and true nature.[4]
 
 [1] (the ottoman state, the ministry of war), "islam ahalinin ducar olduklari
     mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat," (istanbul, 1918). the french
     version: "documents relatifs aux atrocites commises par les armeniens sur
     la population musulmane," (istanbul, 1919). in the latin script: h. k.
     turkozu, ed., "osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi," (ankara,
     1982). in addition: z. basar, ed., "ermenilerden gorduklerimiz," (ankara,
     1974) and, edited by the same author, "ermeniler hakkinda makaleler -
     derlemeler," (ankara, 1978). "askeri tarih belgeleri ...," vol. 32, 83
     (december 1983), document numbered 1881.
 [2] "askeri tarih belgeleri ....," vol. 31, 81 (december 1982), document
     numbered 1869.
 [3] from twerdo-khlebof's report dated 29 april 1918; quoted in ermeniler ...,
     vol. 2, p. 275.
 [4] a. r. (altinay), "iki komite - iki kital," (istanbul, 1919), and, "kafkas
     yollarinda hatiralar ve tahassusler" (istanbul, 1919).
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 