
 in article <c5if8u.3ky@news.cso.uiuc.edu>, ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos
 tamamidis ) writes:
 >  yeah, too much mutlu/argic isn't helping.  i could, one day, proceed and
 
 you shouldn't think many turks read mutlu/argic stuff.
 they are in my kill file, likewise any other fanatic.
  
 > >(i have nothing against greeks but my problem is with fanatics. i have met
 > >so many greeks who wouldn't even talk to me because i am turkish. from my
 > >experience, all my friends always were open to greeks)
 > 
 >  well, the history, wars, current situations, all of them do not help.
 
 well, panos, mr. tamamidis?, the way you put it it is only the turks
 who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to
 believe for somebody trying to be objective.
 when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot
 blame one side only, there always are bad guys on both sides.
 what were you doing on anatolia after the ww1 anyway?
 do you think it was your right to be there?
 i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only
 not one side being the aggressive and the ither always suffering.
 it is sad that we (both) still are not trying to compromise.
 i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the
 visa requirement for greeks to come to turkey. i thought it
 was a positive attempt to make the relations better.
 
 the greeks i mentioned who wouldn't talk to me are educated
 people. they have never met me but they know! i am bad person
 because i am from turkey. politics is not my business, and it is
 not the business of most of the turks. when it comes to individuals 
 why the hatred? so that makes me think that there is some kind of
 brainwashing going on in greece. after all why would an educated person 
 treat every person from a nation the same way? can you tell me about your 
 history books and things you learn about greek-turkish
 encounters during your schooling. 
 take it easy! 
 
 --
 tankut atan
 tankut@iastate.edu
 
 "achtung, baby!"
 