
 [it looks like yigal has been busy...]
 
 rtw  04/14 2155  jewish group sued for passing official information
 
     by adrian croft
      san francisco, april 14, reuter - nineteen people, including the son of
 former israeli defence minister moshe arens, sued the anti-defamation league
 (adl) on wednesday, accusing the jewish group of disclosing confidential
 official information about them.
      richard hirschhaut, director of the san francisco branch of the adl, art
 dealer roy bullock and former policeman tom gerard were also named as defendants
 in the suit, filed in san francisco county superior court.
      the 19 accuse the adl of b'nai b'rith, a group dedicated to fighting
 anti-semitism, and the other defendants of secretly gathering information on
 them, including data from state and federal agencies.
      the suit alleges they disclosed the information to others, including the
 governments of israel and south africa, in what it alleges was a "a massive
 spying operation."
      the action is a class-action suit. it was filed on behalf of about 12,000
 anti-apartheid activists or opponents of israeli policies about whom the
 plaintiffs believe the adl, bullock and gerard gathered information.
      representatives of the adl in san francisco were not immediately available
 for comment on wednesday.
      the civil suit is the first legal action arising out of allegations that
 gerard, a former inspector in the san francisco police intelligence unit, passed
 confidential police files on california political activists to a spy ring.
      the fbi and san francisco police are investigating the adl, bullock and
 gerard over the affair and last week searched the adl's offices in san francisco
 and los angeles.
      the suit alleges invasion of privacy under the civil code of california,
 which prohibits the publication of information obtained from official sources.
 it seeks exemplary damages of at least $2,500 per person as well as other
 unspecified damages.
      lawyer pete mccloskey, a former congresmen who is representing the
 plaintiffs, said the 19 plaintiffs included arab-americans and jews -- and his
 wife helen, who also had information gathered about her.
      one of the plaintiffs is yigal arens, a research scientist at the
 university of southern california who is a son of the former israeli defence
 minister.
      arens told the san francisco examiner he had seen a file the adl kept on
 him in the 1980s, presumably because of his criticism of the treatment of
 palestinians and his position on the israeli-occupied territories.
      according to court documents released last week, bullock and gerard both
 kept information on thousands of california political activists.
      in the documents, a police investigator said he believed the adl paid
 bullock for many years to provide information and that both the league and
 bullock received confidential information from the authorities.
      no criminal charges have yet been filed in the case. the adl, bullock and
 gerard have all denied any wrongdoing.
   reuter ac kg cm
 
 
 
 apn  04/14 2202  adl lawsuit
 
 copyright, 1993. the associated press. all rights reserved.
 
 by catalina ortiz
  associated press writer
    san francisco (ap) -- arab-americans and critics of israel sued the
 anti-defamation league on wednesday, saying it invaded their privacy by
 illegally gathering information about them through a nationwide spy network.
    the adl, a national group dedicated to fighting anti-semitism, intended to
 use the data to discredit them because of their political views, according to
 the class-action lawsuit filed in san francisco superior court.
    "none of us has been guilty of racism or nazism or anti-semitism or hate
 crimes, or any of the other `isms' that the adl claims to protect against. none
 of us is violent or criminal in any way," said carol el-shaieb, an education
 consultant who develops programs on arab culture.
    the 19 plaintiffs include yigal arens, son of former israel defense minister
 moshe arens. the younger arens, a research scientist at the university of
 southern california, said the adl kept a file on him in the 1980s presumably
 because he has criticized israel's treatment of palestinians.
    "the adl believes that anyone who is an arab american ... or speaks
 politically against israel is at least a closet anti-semite," arens said.
    the adl has denied any wrongdoing, but couldn't comment on the lawsuit
 because it hasn't reviewed it, said a spokesman at the adl's new york
 headquarters.
    the fbi and local police and prosecutors are investigating allegations that
 the adl spied on thousands of individuals and hundreds of groups, including
 white supremacist and anti-semitic organizations, arab-americans, greenpeace,
 the national association for the advancement of colored people and san francisco
 public television station kqed.
    some information allegedly came from confidential police and government
 records, according to court documents filed in the probe and the civil lawsuit.
 no charges have been filed in the criminal investigation.
    the lawsuit accuses the adl of violating california's privacy law, which
 forbids the intentional disclosure of personal information "not otherwise
 public" from state or federal records.
    the lawsuit claims the adl disclosed the information to "persons and
 entities" who had no compelling need to receive it. it didn't elaborate.
    defendants include richard hirschhaut, director of the adl's office in san
 francisco. he did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment.
    other defendants are san francisco art dealer roy bullock, an alleged adl
 informant over the past four decades, and former police officer tom gerard.
 gerard allegedly tapped into law enforcement and government computers and passed
 information on to bullock.
    gerard, who has retired from the police force, has moved to the philippines.
 bullock's lawyer, richard breakstone, said he could not comment on the lawsuit
 because he had not yet studied it.
 
 
 
 
 
 upwe 04/14 1956  adl sued for allegedly spying on u.s. residents
 
    san francisco (upi) -- a group of california residents filed suit wednesday
 charging the anti-defamation league of b'nai brith with violating their privacy
 by spying on them for the israeli and south african governments.
    the class-action suit, filed in san francisco superior court, charges the adl
 and its leadership conspired with a local police official to obtain information
 on outspoken opponents of israeli policies towards the occupied territories and
 south africa's apartheid policy.
    the adl refused to comment on the suit.
    the suit also took aim at two top local adl officials and retired san
 francicso police officer tom gerard, claiming they violated privacy guarantees
 in the state constitution and violated state confidentiality laws.
    according to the suit, gerard helped the adl obtain access to confidential
 files in law enforcement and government computers. information from these files
 were passed to the foreign governments, the suit charges.
    "the whole concept of an organized collection of information based on
 political viewpoints and using government agencies as a source of information is
 absolutely repugnant," said former rep. pete mccloskey, who is representing the
 plaintiffs.
    the adl's information-gathering network was revealed publicly last week when
 the san francisco district attorney's office released documents indicating the
 group had spied on 12,000 people and 500 political and ethnic groups for more
 than 30 years.
    "my understanding is that they (the adl) consider all activity that is in
 some sense opposed to israel or israeli action to be part of their responsbility
 to investigate," said arens, a research scientist at the university of southern
 california.
    "the adl believes that anyone who is arab american...or speaks politically
 against israel is at least a closet anti-semite."
    the fbi and the district attorney's office have been investigating the
 operation for four months.
    the 19 plaintiffs in the case include arens, the son of former israeli
 defense minister moshe arens.
    in a press release, the plaintiffs said the alleged spying had damaged them
 psychologically and economically and accused the adl of trying to interfere with
 their freedom of speech.
 