
 in article <1993apr14.125813.21737@ncsu.edu> hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes:
 >
 >lebanese resistance forces detonated a bomb under an israeli occupation
 >patrol in lebanese territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and
 >two wounded. in "retaliation", israeli and israeli-backed forces wounded
 >8 civilians by bombarding several lebanese villages. ironically, the israeli
 >government justifies its occupation in lebanon by claiming that it is 
 >necessary to prevent such bombardments of israeli villages!!
 >
 >congratulations to the brave men of the lebanese resistance! with every
 >israeli son that you place in the grave you are underlining the moral
 >bankruptcy of israel's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli
 >government's policy of reckless disregard for civilian life.
 >
 >brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)
 
 
 ahhh, of course. israeli morality pales in the face of charming events 
 like the string of plo-run skyjackings in the mid 80's (remember those 
 twa jokes?), and not to forget the achille lauro and however many airline
 bombings they have committed, not to mention bombings on the streets of 
 israel (it's gotten to a point where children are told not to go near any
 bags or containers whose origins they don't know, because they could be 
 bombs), or last weeks katyusha rocket attack on northern israel by fatah,
 those wonderful "mainstream moderates" with whom israel is attempting
 to negotiate.
 
 let's not forget the fact that more palestinians are killed by palestinians
 than by israelis.  ahh yes, those charming humanitarian death squads.
 i've actually seen a videotape of an interrogation (dsee the documentary 
 _deadly currents_--very neutral and balanced--seriously)--it was rather 
 inquisition-esque. essentially, to prove his loyalty to "the cause" of
 whichever group it was that was interogating him, he had to turn in someone
 else, or else face death in one of the many fun-filled ways that the death-
 squads love so much--beatings, dismemberment, acid, pouring melted plastic
 on the face of the 'guilty party,' and of course beheading, always my 
 favorite.  did you catch the photos in the washington post a while back 
 the execution of a "collaborator?"  3 photos:
 1) one palestinian leading another at gunpoint.
 2) the "collaborator" on his knees, the gun pointed at his temple.
 3) the executioner standing on the corpse of the "collaborator
 shouting about how this is what happens to collaborators.
 
 wonderful justice system, and lots of regard for human rights.
 remember black september?
 ok, so they just tried to take over jordan, big deal.
 
 i'm rambling now, but are you getting what i'm saying?
 
 amir
 