
 
 hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu (brad hernlem) writes:
 
 
 >i just thought that i would make it clear, in case you are not familiar with
 >my past postings on this subject; i do not condone attacks on civilians. 
 >hezbollah and other lebanese resistance fighters are skilled at precision
 >bombing of sla and israeli targets. i find such methods to be far more
 >restrained and responsible than the israeli method of shelling and bombing
 >villages with the hope that a hezbollah member will be killed along with
 >the civilians murdered. i do not consider the killing of combatants to be
 >murder. soldiers are trained to die for their country. three idf soldiers
 >did their duty the other day. these men need not have died if their government
 >had kept them on israeli soil. 
 
 is there any israeli a civilian, in your opinion ?
 
 now, i do not condone myself bombing villages, any kind of villages.
 but you claim these are villages with civilians, and iraelis claim they are 
 camps filled with terrorists. you claim that israelis shell the villages with the
 'hope' of finding a terrorist or so. if they kill one, fine, if not, too bad, 
 civilians die, right ? i am not so sure. 
 
 as somebody wrote, saddam hussein had no problems using civilians in disgusting
 manner. and he also claimed 'civilians murdered'. let me ask you, isn't there 
 at least a slight chance that you (not only, and the question is very general, 
 no insult) are doing a similar type of propaganda in respect to civilians in
 southern lebanon ?
 
 now, a lot people who post here consider 'israeli soil' kind of mediteranean sea.
 how do you define israeli soil ? from what you say, if you do not clearly 
 recognize the state of israel, you condone killing israelis anywhere.
 
 >dorin, are you aware that the idf sent helicopters and gun-boats up the
 >coast of lebanon the other day and rocketted a palestinian refugee north of
 >beirut. perhaps i should ask you "what qualifies a person for murder?":
 
 i do not know what was the pupose of the action you describe. if it was 
 to kill civilians (i doubt), i certainly do not condone it. if civilians were 
 killed, i do not condone it. 
 
 >that they are palestinian?
 
 >that they are children and may grow up to be "terrorists"?
 
 >that they are female and may give birth to little terrorists?
 
 >brad hernlem (hernlem@chess.ncsu.edu)
 
 mr. hernlem, it was you, not me, who was showing a huge satisfaction for 3 
 israelis (human beings by most standards, don't know about your standards) killed.
 
 if you ask me those questions, i will have no problem answering (not with a 
 question, as you did) : no, nobody is qualified candidate for murder, nothing
 justifies murder. i have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make
 similar statements, maybe after eliminating all israelis, jews, ? am i wrong ?
 
 
 now tell me, did you also condone saddam's scuds on israeli 'soldiers' in, let's
 say, tel aviv ? from what i understand, a lot of palestineans cheered. what does
 it show? it does not qualify for freedom fighting to me ? but again, i may be 
 wrong, and the jewish controlled media distorted the information, and i am just
 an ignorant victim of the media, like most of us.
 
 
 dorin
 
 
 