
 there have been a number of articles on the pbs frontline program
 about iranian bomb. here is my $0.02 on this and related subjects.
 
 one is curious to know the real reasons behind this and related
 public relations campaign about iran in recent months. these include:
 
 1) attempts to implicate iran in the bombing of the new york trade
    center. despite great efforts in this direction they have not
    succeeded in this. they, however, have indirectly created
    the impression that iran is behind the rise of fundamentalist
    islamic movements and thus are indirectly implicated in this matter.
 
 2) public statements by the secretary of state christoffer and
    other official sources regarding iran being a terrorist and
    outlaw state.
 
 3) and finally the recent broadcast of the frontline program. i 
    suspect that this pr campaign against iran will continue and
    perhaps intensify.
 
 why this increased pressure on iran? a number of factors may have
 been behind this. these include:
 
 1) the rise of islamic movements in north-africa and radical
    hamas movement in the israeli occupied territories. this
    movement is basically anti-western and is not necessarily
    fueled by iran. the cause for accelerated pace of this 
    movement is probably the gulf war which sought to return
    colonial shieks and amirs to their throne in the name of
    democracy and freedom. also, the obvious support of algerian
    military coup against the democratically elected algerian
    islamic front which clearly exposed the democracy myth.
    a further cause of this may be the daily broadcast of the news
    on the slaughter of bosnian moslems.
 
 2) possible future implications of this movement in saudi arabia
    and other us client states and endangerment of the cheap oil
    sources from this region.
 
 3) a need to create an enemy as an excuse for huge defense
    expenditures. this has become necessary after the demise of
    soveit union.
 
 the recent pr campaign against iran, however, seems to be directed
 from israel rather than washington. there is no fundamental conflict
 of interest between iran and the us and in my opinion, it is in the
 interest of both countries to affect reestablishment of normal
 and friendly relations. this may have a moderating effect on the
 rise of radical movements within the islamic world and iran .
 
 --jamshid
 