
 in article <1993apr13.141518.13900@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu> hasan@mcrcim.mcgill.edu  writes:
 
    check menahem begin dairies (published book) you'll find accounts of the
    massacres there including deir yassen,
    though with the numbers of massacred men, children and women are 
    greatly minimized.
 
 as per request of hasan:
 
 from _the revolt_, by menachem begin, dell publishing, ny, 1977:
 
 [pp. 225-227]
 
     "apart from the military aspect, there is a moral aspect to the
 story of dir yassin. at that village, whose name was publicized
 throughout the world, both sides suffered heavy casualties. we had
 four killed and nearly forty wounded. the number of casualties was
 nearly forty percent of the total number of the attackers. the arab
 troops suffered casualties neraly three times as heavy. the fighting
 was thus very severe. yet the hostile propaganda, disseminated
 throughout the world, deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian
 population of dir yassin was actually given a warning by us before the
 battle began. one of our tenders carrying a loud speaker was stationed
 at the entrance to the village and it exhorted in arabic all women,
 children and aged to leave their houses and to take shelter on the
 slopes of the hill.  by giving this humane warning our fighters threw
 away the element of complete surprise, and thus increased their own
 risk in the ensuing battle. a substantial number of the inhabitants
 obeyed the warning and they were unhurt. a few did not leave their
 stone houses - perhaps because of the confusion. the fire of the enemy
 was murderous - to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent
 testimony. our men were compelled to fight for every house; to
 overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand grenades. and the
 civilians who had disregarded our warnings suffered inevitable
 casualties.
 
     "the education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of
 revolt was based on the observance of the traditional laws of war. we
 never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us, in
 accordance with the accepted custom of war, to apply reprisals. i am
 convinced, too, that our officers and men wished to avoid a single
 unnecessary casualty in the dir yassin battle. but those who throw
 stones of denunciation at the conquerors of dir yassin [1] would do
 well not to don the cloak of hypocrisy [2].
 
     "in connection with the capture of dir yassin the jewish agency
 found it necessary to send a letter of apology to abdullah, whom mr.
 ben gurion, at a moment of great political emotion, called 'the wise
 ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country.' the 'wise
 ruler,' whose mercenary forces demolished gush etzion and flung the
 bodies of its heroic defenders to birds of prey, replied with feudal
 superciliousness. he rejected the apology and replied that the jews
 were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of
 'dissidents.' throughout the arab world and the world at large a wave
 of lying propaganda was let loose about 'jewish attrocities.'
 
     "the enemy propaganda was designed to besmirch our name. in the
 result it helped us. panic overwhelmed the arabs of eretz israel.
 kolonia village, which had previously repulsed every attack of the
 haganah, was evacuated overnight and fell without further fighting.
 beit-iksa was also evacuated. these two places overlooked the main
 road; and their fall, together with the capture of kastel by the
 haganah, made it possible to keep open the road to jerusalem. in the
 rest of the country, too, the arabs began to flee in terror, even
 before they clashed with jewish forces. not what happened at dir
 yassin, but what was invented about dir yassin, helped to carve the
 way to our decisive victories on the battlefield. the legend of dir
 yassin helped us in particular in the saving of tiberias and the
 conquest of haifa."
 
 
 [1] (a footnote from _the revolt_, pp.226-7.) "to counteract the loss
 of dir yassin, a village of strategic importance, arab headquarters at
 ramallah broadcast a crude atrocity story, alleging a massacre by
 irgun troops of women and children in the village. certain jewish
 officials, fearing the irgun men as political rivals, seized upon this
 arab gruel propaganda to smear the irgun. an eminent rabbi was induced
 to reprimand the irgun before he had time to sift the truth. out of
 evil, however, good came. this arab propaganda spread a legend of
 terror amongst arabs and arab troops, who were seized with panic at
 the mention of irgun soldiers. the legend was worth half a dozen
 battalions to the forces of israel. the `dir yassin massacre' lie
 is still propagated by jew-haters all over the world."
 
 [2] in reference to denunciation of dir yassin by fellow jews.
 