
 in article <c5lxew.9p0@panix.com> mpoly@panix.com (michael s. polymenakos) writes:
 
 > maybe with the availability of anon servers some people are beginning to
 >speak out? 
 
 i sure hope so. because, the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must 
 be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of 
 urartus, massacred and exterminated its population and presented to 
 the world all those left from the urartus, as the armenian civilization.
 
 all reliable western historians describe how armenians ruthlessly
 exterminated 2.5 million muslim women, children and elderly people of 
 eastern anatolia and how they collaborated with the enemies of the 
 ottoman empire between 1914-1920.
 
 it is unfortunately a truth that armenians are known as collaborators
 of the nazis during world war ii and that, even today, criminal/nazi
 members of the asala/sdpa/arf terrorism triangle preach and instigate
 racism, hatred, violence and terrorism among peoples. 
 
 and x-soviet armenia continues its anti-turkish policy in the following 
 ways:
 
 1. x-soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide
 in order to shift international public opinion away from its political
 responsibility.
 
 2. x-soviet armenia, employing asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism 
 triangle and criminal/nazi armenians, attempts to call into question the 
 veracity of the turkish genocide.
 
 3. x-soviet armenia has also implemented state-sponsored terrorism through
 the asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle in an attempt to 
 silence the turkish people's vehement demands and protests.
 
 4. using all its human, financial, and governmental resources, x-soviet
 armenia and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through
 terrorism, bribery and other subversive methods, non-turkish supporters
 of the turkish cause, be they political, governmental and humanitarian.
 
 using all the aforementioned methods, the x-soviet armenian government 
 is attempting to neutralize the international diplomatic community from
 making the turkish case a contemporary issue.
 
 yet despite the efforts of the x-soviet armenian government and its terrorist
 and revisionist organizations, in the last decades, thanks to the struggle 
 of those whose closest ones were systematically exterminated by the armenians,
 the international wall of silence on this issue has begun to collapse, and 
 consequently a number of governments and organizations have become 
 supportive of the recognition of the turkish genocide.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 