
 it is appropriate to add what himmler said other "inferior races" 
 and "human animals" in his speech at posen and elsewhere:
 
 
 from the speech of reichsfuehrer-ss himmler, before ss
 major-generals, posen, october 4 1943
 ["nazi conspiracy and aggression", vol. iv, p. 559]
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
 one basic principal must be the absolute rule for the ss man: we
 must be honest, decent, loyal, and comradely to members of our own
 blood and to nobody else. what happens to a russian, to a czech,
 does not interest me in the slightest. what the nations can offer
 in good blood of our type, we will take, if necessary by kidnapping
 their children and raising them with us. whether nations live in
 prosperity or starve to death interests me only in so far as we
 need them as slaves for our culture; otherwise, it is of no interest
 to me. whether 10,000 russian females fall down from exhaustion
 while digging an anti-tank ditch interest me only in so far as
 the anti-tank ditch for germany is finished. we shall never be rough
 and heartless when it is not necessary, that is clear. we germans,
 who are the only people in the world who have a decent attitude
 towards animals, will also assume a decent attitude towards these
 human animals. but it is a crime against our own blood to worry
 about them and give them ideals, thus causing our sons and
 grandsons to have a more difficult time with them. when someone
 comes to me and says, "i cannot dig the anti-tank ditch with women
 and children, it is inhuman, for it will kill them", then i
 would have to say, "you are a murderer of your own blood because
 if the anti-tank ditch is not dug, german soldiers will die, and
 they are the sons of german mothers. they are our own blood".
 
 
 
 extract from himmler's address to party comrades, september 7 1940
 ["trials of wa criminals", vol. iv, p. 1140]
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
 if any pole has any sexual dealing with a german woman, and by this
 i mean sexual intercourse, then the man will be hanged right in
 front of his camp. then the others will not do it. besides,
 provisions will be made that a sufficient number of polish women
 and girls will come along as well so that a necessity of this
 kind is out of the question.
 
 the women will be brought before the courts without mercy, and
 where the facts are not sufficiently proved - such borderline
 cases always happen - they will be sent to a concentration camp.
 this we must do, unless these one million poles and those
 hundreds of thousands of workers of alien blood are to inflict
 untold damage on the german blood. philosophizing is of no avail
 in this case. it would be better if we did not have them at all -
 we all know that - but we need them.
 
 
 
 -danny keren.
 
 