
 in article <1993apr18.051439.5942@urartu.sdpa.org> hla@urartu.sdpa.org  writes:
 
 >i want this discussion to take place in english, because it is only after  
 
 let's face it, if the words don't get into your noggin in the first place, 
 there's no hope. now tell us, 'sdpa.org', a mouthpiece of the fascist x-soviet 
 armenian government: what was your role in the murder of orhan gunduz and 
 kemal arikan? how many more muslims will be slaughtered by 'sdpa.org' as 
 publicly declared and filed with the legal authorities? 
 
 
  "...that more people have to die..." 
 
                     sdpa <91@urartu.uucp>
 
   "yes, i stated this and stand by it."
 
                     sdpa <255@urartu.uucp>
 
 
     	january 28, 1982 - los angeles
 	kemal arikan is slaughtered by two armenians while driving to work. 
 
     	march 22, 1982 - cambridge, massachusetts
 	prelude to grisly murder. a gift and import shop belonging to
 	orhan gunduz is blown up. gunduz receives an ultimatum: either 
         he gives up his honorary position or he will be "executed". he 
         refuses. "responsibility" is claimed by jcag and sdpa.
 
     	may 4, 1982 - cambridge, massachusetts
 	orhan gunduz, the turkish honorary consul in boston, would not bow 
 	to the armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of 
 	"honorary consul". now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood.
 	president reagan orders an all-out manhunt-to no avail. an eye-
 	witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down.  he 
 	survives... but falls silent. one of the most revolting "triumphs" in 
 	the senseless, mindless history of armenian terrorism. such a murder 
 	brings absolutely nothing - except an ego boost for the murderer 
 	within the armenian terrorist underworld, which is already wallowing 
 	in self-satisfaction.
  
 were you involved in the murder of sarik ariyak? 
 
    	december 17, 1980 - sydney
 	two nazi armenians massacre sarik ariyak and his bodyguard, engin 
         sever. jcag and sdpa claim responsibility.
 
 
 source: edward k. boghosian, "radical group hosts well-attended solidarity
 meeting," the armenian reporter, may 1, 1986, pp. 1 & 18.
 
 athens, greece - an array of representatives of greek political parties,
 including the ruling pasok party, and a host of political groups, both
 armenian and non-armenian, joined to voice their solidarity with the 
 armenian people in their pursuit of their cause and activities of a new
 armenian political force were voiced here on sunday, april 20 during
 the 2nd international meeting of solidarity with the armenian people. and
 judging from encouraging messages offered by the representatives of these
 political groups and organizations, at least here in greece, the armenian
 cause enjoys abundant support from a wide spectrum of the political world.
 
 the international meeting of solidarity was sponsored by the greek branch of
 the armenian popular movement, a comparatively new political force headed
 by younger generations of armenians, who openly profess their support of the
 armed struggle and of the armenian secret army for the liberation of armenia
 (asala). the organization has branches in various european and middle eastern
 countries and the united states although some of these branches appear to
 have gone through a switch of loyalties because of the split within the ranks
 of asala...
 
 voicing the support of pasok, the ruling party in greece, to the armenian
 people, was mr. charalambidi michalis, a member of the central committee of
 the party and the greek member of the permanent people's tribunal...
 explaining the goals and aspirations of the armenian popular movement 
 was ara sarkisian. significant was the address delivered by mr. bassam 
 abu-salim, on behalf of the popular front for the movement's continued 
 support of the armenians' armed struggle in their pursuit of their cause, 
 pledging that palestinian operated and run training camps would always be 
 open to armenian youth who need training for such a struggle. later, mr. 
 abu-salim, answering a question put to him by this writer, affirmed that 
 his organization had always trained armenian members of asala and that
 this policy will continue. "the doors of our camps are always open to 
 armenian freedom fighters," he affirmed.
 
 among the prominent greek politicians who attended the conference was the son
 of prime minister papandreou, who himself holds a post in the greek cabinet;
 two members of the cypriot parliament who had journeyed to athens for the
 specific purpose of attending the international gathering; representatives of
 the christian democratic party, edik center party, two wings of the communist
 party, representatives of an assortment of labor unions and trade associations,
 a number of mayors of greek towns and cities; two greek members of the
 european parliament and other members of the greek parliament were also among
 those who participated in the international conference. also on hand to follow
 the deliberations was the ambassador of bulgaria in athens.
 
 more than significant was the large number of messages received by the 
 organizers, including the following: palestinian national revolutionary
 movement, fatah; popular front for the liberation of palestine-general
 command; the central committee of the palestinian national liberation
 movement-fatah; the socialist progressive party of lebanon; arab socialist
 labor party; the kurdistan democratic union of iraq; and numerous other
 international groups, all noted for their radical stand in the israeli-
 palestinian conflict.
 
                  support from arf-rm
 
 among messages received from armenian groups was the armenian revolutionary
 federation-revolutionary movement, the group that has claimed the abduction
 and assassination of key party leaders in lebanon accused of selling out to
 foreign interests and powers. the message clearly gave its support to the
 armenian popular movement pledging that the revolutionary movement will
 continue to "reveal the realities, no matter how bitter or tragic they are,"
 to expose the anti-armenian activities of the leaders of the dashnag "bureau."
 the message was taken as an indication of the link, loose as it may be, that
 exists between the dissident dashnag group and the armenian popular movement,
 open supporters of asala and armed struggle.
 
 the armenian popular movement has set up its headquarters in a suburb of the
 greek capital, known as neos kosmos, where there is a large armenian presence.
 the headquarters are located in a two-story building, which appears to have
 turned into a beehive of activity on the part of scores of armenian youth, who
 prefer to give their first names only when invited to introduce themselves...
 
 now any comment?
 
 #from: vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (vedat  dogan)
 #subject: re:addressing.....
 #message-id: <1993apr8.233029.29094@news.columbia.edu>
 
  
 in article <1993apr7.225058.12073@urartu.sdpa.org> dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes:
 >in article <1993apr7.030636.7473@news.columbia.edu> vd8@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
 >(vedat  dogan) wrote in response to article <1993mar31.141308.28476@urartu.
 >11sdpa.org> dbd@urartu.sdpa.org (david davidian) writes:
 >
  
 >[(*] source: "adventures in the near east, 1918-1922" by a. rawlinson,
 >[(*] jonathan cape, 30 bedford square, london, 1934 (first published 1923) 
 >[(*] (287 pages).
 >
 >[dd] such a pile of garbage! first off, the above reference was first published
 >[dd] in 1924 not 1923, and has 353 pages not 287! second, upon checking page 
 >[dd] 178, we are asked to believe:
 > 
 >[vd] no, mr.davidian ... 
 > 
 >[vd]  it was first published in 1923 (i have the book on my desk,now!) 
 >[vd]                         ********
 > 
 >[vd]  and furthermore,the book i have does not have 353 pages either, as you
 >[vd]  claimed, mr.davidian..it has 377 pages..any question?..
 >  
 >well, it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the 
 n>crap posted by mr. [(*]!
  
  o boy!   
  
  please, can you tell us why those quotes are "crap"?..because you do not 
  like them!!!...because they really exist...why?
  
  as i said in my previous posting, those quotes exactly exist in the source 
  given by serdar argic .. 
   
  you couldn't reject it...
  
 >
 >in addition, the author's preface was written on january 15, 1923, but the book
 >was published in 1924.
  
  here we go again..
  in the book i have, both the front page and the author's preface give 
  the same year: 1923 and 15 january, 1923, respectively!
  (anyone can check it at her/his library,if not, i can send you the copies of
  pages, please ask by sct) 
  
  
 i really don't care what year it was first published(1923 or 1924)
 what i care about is what the book writes about murders, tortures,et..in
 the given quotes by serdar argic, and your denial of these quotes..and your
 groundless accussations, etc. 
  
 >
 [...]
 > 
 >[dd] i can provide .gif postings if required to verify my claim!
 > 
 >[vd] what is new?
 > 
 >i will post a .gif file, but i am not going go through the effort to show there 
 >is some turkish modified re-publication of the book, like last time!
  
  
  i claim i have a book in my hand published in 1923(first publication)
  and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published
  in 1934(serdar argic's reference) has..you couldn't reject it..but, now you
  are avoiding the real issues by twisting around..
  
  let's see how you lie!..(from 'non-existing' quotes to re-publication)
  
  first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference..you
  called serdar argic a liar!..
  i said to you, no, mr.davidian, there exactly existed such a quote...
  (i even gave the call number, page numbers..you could't reject it.)
  
  and now, you are lying again and talking about "modified,re-published book"
 (without any proof :how, when, where, by whom, etc..)..
  (by the way, how is it possible to re-publish the book in 1923 if it was
   first published in 1924(your claim).i am sure that you have some 'pretty 
   well suited theories', as usual)
  
  and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who
  wants to compare the fact and mr.davidian's lies...i also give the call number
  and page numbers again for the library use, which are:  
                  949.6 r 198
    
   and the page numbers to verify the quotes:218 and 215
               
      
  
 > 
 >it is not possible that [(*]'s text has 287 pages, mine has 353, and yours has
 >377!
  
  now, are you claiming that there can't be such a reference by saying "it is
  not possible..." ..if not, what is your point?
  
  differences in the number of pages?
  mine was published in 1923..serdar argic's was in 1934..
  no need to use the same book size and the same letter 
  charachter in both publications,etc, etc.. does it give you an idea!!
  
  the issue was not the number of pages the book has..or the year
  first published.. 
  and you tried to hide the whole point..
  the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about
  how moslems are killed, tortured,etc by armenians..and those quotes given 
  by serdar argic exist!! 
  it was the issue, wasn't-it?  
  
  you were not able to object it...does it bother you anyway? 
  
  you name all these tortures and murders (by armenians) as a "crap"..
  people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still
  has so many "craps" in the 1993. 
  
  any question?
  
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 