
 in article <1993apr17.172014.663@hellgate.utah.edu> tolman%asylum.cs.utah.edu@cs.utah.edu (kenneth tolman) writes:
 
 >>i sure hope so. because, the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must 
 >>be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of 
 
 >no!  no!  no no no no no.  it is not justifiable to right wrongs of
 >previous years.  my ancestors tortured, enslaved, and killed blacks.  i
 >do not want to take responsibility for them.  i may not have any direct
 >relatives who did such things, but how am i to know?
 >there is enough current torture, enslavement and genocide to go around.
 >lets correct that.  lets forget and forgive, each and every one of us has
 >a historical reason to kill, torture or take back things from those around
 >us.  pray let us not be infantile arbiters for past injustice.
 
 are you suggesting that we should forget the cold-blooded genocide of
 2.5 million muslim people by the armenians between 1914 and 1920? but 
 most people aren't aware that in 1939 hitler said that he would pattern
 his elimination of the jews based upon what the armenians did to turkish
 people in 1914.
 
 
      'after all, who remembers today the extermination of the tartars?'
       (adolf hitler, august 22, 1939: ruth w. rosenbaum (durusoy), 
           "the turkish holocaust - turk soykirimi", p. 213.)
 
 
 i refer to the turks and kurds as history's forgotten people. it does
 not serve our society well when most people are totally unaware of
 what happened in 1914 where a vicious society, run by fascist armenians,
 decided to simply use the phoniest of pretexts as an excuse, for wiping 
 out a peace-loving, industrious, and very intelligent and productive 
 ethnic group. what we have is a demand from the fascist government of
 x-soviet armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our
 people. and the only way we can do that is if we can catch hold of and 
 not lose sight of the historical precedence in this very century. we 
 cannot reverse the events of the past, but we can and we must strive to 
 keep the memory of this tragedy alive on this side of the atlantic, so as
 to help prevent a recurrence of the extermination of a people because 
 of their religion or their race. which means that i support the claims 
 of the turks and kurds to return to their lands in x-soviet armenia, 
 to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 