
 in article <48095@sdcc12.ucsd.edu> hminassi@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (hm) writes:
 
 >    "turkey must bare its teeth to armenia."
 
 sooner than you expect. remember 'cyprus'?
 
 >   i have to say i vehemently disagree with you, i have seen
 
 too bad. in fact, by 1942, nazi armenians in europe had established 
 a vast network of pro-german collaborators, that extended over two 
 continents. thousands of armenians were serving the german army and 
 waffen-ss in russia and western europe. armenians were involved in 
 espionage and fifth-column activities for hitler in the balkans and 
 arabian peninsula. they were promised an 'independent' state under 
 german 'protection' in an agreement signed by the 'armenian national 
 council.' (a copy of this agreement can be found in the 'congressional 
 record,' november 1, 1945; see document 1.) on this side of the atlantic, 
 nazi armenians were aware of their brethrens alliance. they had often 
 expressed pro-nazi sentiments until america entered the war. in summary,
 during world war ii armenians were carried away with the german might and
 cringing and fawning over the nazis. in that zeal, the armenian publication
 in germany, hairenik, carried statements as follows:[1]
 
 "sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the jews)
  when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease, and when it 
  becomes necessary for a people (the nazis) to eradicate them in an uncommon
  method, these attempts are regarded as revolutionary. during the surgical
  operation, the flow of blood is a natural thing." 
 
 now for a brief view of the armenian genocide of the muslims and jews -
 extracts from a letter dated december 11, 1983, published in the san
 francisco chronicle, as an answer to a letter that had been published
 in the same journal under the signature of one b. amarian.
 
  "...we have first hand information and evidence of armenian atrocities
   against our people (jews)...members of our family witnessed the 
   murder of 148 members of our family near erzurum, turkey, by armenian 
   neighbors, bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish 
   and/or muslim. armenians should look to their own history and see 
   the havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors...
   armenians were in league with hitler in the last war, on his premise 
   to grant them self government if, in return, the armenians would 
   help exterminate jews...armenians were also hearty proponents of
   the anti-semitic acts in league with the russian communists. mr. amarian!
   i don't need your bias."  
 
   signed elihu ben levi, vacaville, california.
 
 [1] james g. mandalian, 'dro, drastamat kanayan,' in the 'armenian
     review,' a quarterly by the hairenik association, inc., summer:
     june 1957, vol. x, no. 2-38.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 