
 in article <1993apr19.000246.11186@urartu.sdpa.org> hla@urartu.sdpa.org  writes:
 
 >in your (and mutlu/argic/cosar's and thousands of others like you)
 
 'sdpa.org' criminals/nazis in action. your fascist government got away with 
 the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men, women and children and is enjoying 
 the fruits of that genocide. and your criminal organization will not get away 
 with the genocide's cover-up. in june 1915, a major uprising took place in 
 sebinkarahisar under the leadership of the famous nazi boyadjian. the moslem 
 districts were burnt down. hundreds of soldiers and gendarmerie were killed
 and hundreds of civilians also perished.
 
    armenians first of all occupied the talori region, which included 
    the villages of siner, simai, gulli-guzat, ahi, hedenk, sinank,
    ekind, effard, musson, etek, akcesser. leaving their wives, 
    children and property in these inaccessible spots, the armenians 
    joined forces with other armed bands coming from the silvan 
    districts in the plain of mus, after which the whole body of
    3000 men gathered in the andok mt. five or six hundred wished
    to surround mus, and started off by attacking the delican tribe to
    the south of the city. they slaughtered a number of the tribe and
    seized their goods. the religious beliefs of the muslims who fell
    into their hands were derided and disparaged, and the muslims
    themselves murdered in the most frightful manner. the rebels
    also attacked the regular troops in the vicinity of mus, but the
    large numbers of the regular forces prevented them from
    occupying the city.
 
    the rebels joined the bandits in the andok mts., carrying out
    the most frightful massacres and looting among the tribes of the
    neighbourhood. they burned omer agha's nephew alive. they
    raped a number of turkish women at a spot three or four hours'
    distance from gulli-guzat and then strangled them.
 
    at the beginning of august the rebels attacked the faninar,
    bekiran and badikan tribes, perpetrating equally horrible
    atrocities. the rebels in the villages of yermut and ealigernuk in
    the nahiye of cinan in the kaza of cal attacked the kurds in the
    neighbourhood, as well as the villages of kaisser and catcat.
 
    towards the end of august, the armenians attacked the
    kurds in the vicinity of mus and burned down three or four
    villages, including gulli-guzat. as for the 3000 rebels in talori,
    they continued to spread death and destruction among the
    muslims and other christian communities, refusing to lay down
    their arms. 
 
 source: uras, esat: the armenians in history. documentary publications 
 (istanbul), 1988.
 
 p. 954.
 
 "in his speech given at the sivas congress, mustafa kemal once again drew
  a picture of the  country under occupation:
 
  in the east, the armenians are making preparations for advancing to the
  river halys (kizilirmak), and have already started a policy of massacring
  the moslem population."
 
 
 pp. 966-967.
 
 "the situation of the southern provinces of turkey after the signing of the
  mudros armistice is described by ataturk in his speech:
 
  the armenians in the south, armed by foreign troops and encouraged by the
  protection they enjoyed, molested the mohammedans of their district. they 
  pursued a relentless policy of murder and extinction everywhere. this was 
  responsible for the tragic incident at maras....the armenians had completely 
  destroyed an old mohammedan town like maras by their artillery and 
  machine-gun fire.
 
  they killed thousands of innocent and defenceless women and children. the
  armenians were the instigators of the atrocities, which were unique in
  history. 
 
  
 source: documents: volume i (1919).
         "document no: 15," archive no: 1/2, cabin no: 113, drawer 
         no: 3, file no: 520, section no: 2024, contents no: 11-1; 11-3.
         (19 feb 330 '4 march 1915', district governor kemal)
 
 "list of male inhabitants of mergehu village murdered or annihilated 
  with the utmost savagery by armenians:
 
  names				method of annihilation
  -----				----------------------
 haci ibrahim, son of abdi	bullets and bayonet
 abdi, son of haci ibrahim	bullets and bayonet
 reso, son of abdi		beaten and cut into pieces
 sado, son of omer		beaten and cut into pieces
 aso, son of reso		beaten and cut into pieces
 kulu, son of canko		stabbed in the eye with a bayonet
 musa, son of canko		bayonet in his eye
 emin, son of molla hamit	bayonet in his eye
 molla abdullah, son of hamit	bayonet in his eye
 ibo, son of haci		bayonet in his eye
 sado, son of haci		bayonet in his eye
 abdullah, son of canko		slaughtered
 ibo, son of ahmet		abdomen ripped open
 ismail, son of ibo		burnt in fire
 musto, son of ozu		bullets
 mahmut, son of seyyo		slaughtered
 kocak, son of birro		bullets
 musto, son of husnu		bullets
 uso, son of alo			bullets
 maksut, son of peri		bullets
 haci, son of peri		bullets
 mehmet, son of hasanali		bayonet 
 ibo, son of hasanali	 	bayonet
 abdo, son of mehmed		bayonet
 molla suleyman			burnt in oven
 mazgi, son of abdullah		stabbed in abdomen by bayonet
 sulis, son of hasan		bullets
 mahmo, son of mehmet		stabbed with a dagger
 murat, son of hasan		stabbed with a dagger
 uso, son of avci		blinded with a bayonet
 lesko, son of mehmet		stabbed with a dagger
 abdullah, son of kasim		bullets
 coban abdullah			bullets
 seymo, son of mumin		bullets 
 muammer, son of reso		bullets
 paso, son of merzi		bullets
 gulu, son of bitor		bullets
 murat, son of yusuf		bullets and bayonet
 cedo, son of haci ibrahim	bullets and bayonet
 faki mehmet			bullets and bayonet
 silo, son of abdulcebbar	bullets and bayonet
 
 
  list of massacred females from the same village:
 
 kasi, daughter of huso and 
 wife of haci ibrahim		bullets
 fati, daughter of isa,
 wife of aduz			bullets
 zeresan, daughter of amat,
 wife of reso			bayonet
 gullu, daughter of iyso		cutting off her breasts
 sulnu, daughter of sulo,	ripping open her abdomen and burning
 wife of ibo			her baby in oven
 fatma, daughter of ibo 		slaughtered and burnt in oven
 fidan hatun			burnt in oven
 gulfizar, daughter of hacihan,  
 wife of musto			slaughtered
 rahime, daughter of mehmet, 
 wife of halil			bullets
 binefs, daughter of haci kerim,
 wife of suleyman		burnt in oven
 mahiye, daughter of ali, 
 wife of sivno			slaughtered
 hati, daughter of haci, 
 wife of ahmet         		slaughtered
 hacer, daughter of meho		bullet and bayonet
 
 
  list of females of the same village raped and murdered:
 
 nadire, daughter of haci, wife of suvis
 hani, daughter of kulu, wife of zerko
 zaliha, daughter of telli, wife of silo
 arap, daughter of sami, wife of hilo
 
  wounded males and females of the same village:
 
  (a long list)
 
  list of massacred males and females at istuci village:
 
 mikail, son of alo		bullets
 musto, son of ismail		bullets
 dervis, son of maksut		bullets
 ali, son of nimet		bayonet
 esat, son of kelo		bayonet and bullets
 isa, son of nebi		bayonet and bullets
 cevher, son of gani		beaten by rifle butt
 ziro, daughter of hasan		died from injuries
 hazal, daughter of ali, 
 wife of acem			died from injuries
 hamsa, daughter of huseyin,
 wife of huseyin			died from injuries
 
  
  list of raped women at istuci village in life:
 
 sabo, daughter of maho		virgin
 miri, other daughter of maho	virgin
 emine, daughter of meho, wife
 of sofi salih
 sahap, daughter of ali, wife 
 of nevruz
 gullu, daughter of mahi		virgin
 
 
  list of persons attacked by armenian gangs:
 
  (a long list)"
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 