
 in article <48090@sdcc12.ucsd.edu> hminassi@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (hm) writes:
 
 >     azeri president abulfaz elchibey said azerbaijan had recovered
 >the bodies of some 500 "terrorists including blacks, mongols and
 >fighters recently brought to (the armenian capital) yerevan from lebanon."
 
 you can dream whatever you wish. we have demands from the armenians.
 with the government of x-soviet armenia, we would sit down, go over
 all our outstanding issues, whether it's land or reparations or
 recognition, whatever it is. we'd like to sit down and ask for it.
 by all means, lands and properties were taken away from us and they
 should be returned to the rightful owners, the turkish and kurdish 
 people, who were there 3,000 years, long before the armenians ever
 showed up in that area. entire population of the region was subjected 
 to genocide beyond belief; genocide which was planned to exterminate 
 the whole turkish people of the region to the last man, woman and child. 
 armenians tortured and massacred millions of defenseless civilians. to 
 assemble innocent civilians in the mosques and burn them in the buildings 
 was one of their methods. even today the traveler in that region is seldom 
 free from the evidence of these armenian crimes.
 
 if you have the stomach, i would strongly recommend the following
 references on the armenian genocide of the muslims. many more of them
 are also available in the 'erzurum and van turkish genocide museums.'
 
 1. neside kerem demir, "bir sehid anasina tarihin soyledikleri: 
    turkiye'nin ermeni meselesi," hulbe basim ve yayin t.a.s., 
    ankara, 1982. 
 
 2. veysel eroglu, "ermeni mezalimi," sebil yayinevi, istanbul, 1978.
 
 3. a. alper gazigiray, "osmanlilardan gunumuze kadar vesikalarla ermeni
    teroru'nun kaynaklari," gozen kitabevi, istanbul, 1982.
 
 4. dr. kirzioglu m. fahrettin, "kars ili ve cevresinde ermeni mezalimi,"
    kardes matbaasi, ankara, 1970. 
 
 but more than that. 
 
 a final goodbye in azerbaijan:
 
 [photo by associated press]: "at a cemetery in agdam, azerbaijan, family 
 members and friends grieved during the burial of victims killed in the 
 fighting in nagorno-karabagh. chingiz iskandarov, right, hugged the 
 coffin containing the remains of his brother, one of the victims. a copy 
 of koran lay atop the coffin."
 the new york times, 3/6/92
 
 final embrace :
 
 [photo by associated press]: "chingiz iskenderov, right, weeps over 
 coffin holding the remains of his brother as other relatives grieve 
 at an azarbaijani cemetery yesterday amid burial of victims killed 
 in fighting in nagorno-karabagh."
 the washington post, 3/6/92
 
 nagorno-karabagh victims buried in azerbaijani town :
 
 "refugees claim hundreds died in armenian attack...of seven bodies seen 
  here today, two were children and three were women, one shot through 
  the chest at what appeared to be close range.  another 120 refugees 
  being treated at agdam's hospital include many with multiple stab 
  wounds."
  thomas goltz
  the washington post, 2/28/92
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 