
 in article <c5i7ap.eld@acsu.buffalo.edu> v999saum@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (varnavas a. lambrou) writes:
 
 >what about cyprus?? the majority of the population is christian, but 
 >your fellow turkish friends did and still doing a 'good' job for you 
 >by cleaning the area from christians.
 
 all your article reflects is your abundant ignorance. the people of 
 turkiye know quite well that greece and the greek cypriots will never 
 abandon the idea of hellenizing cyprus and will remain eternally 
 hopeful of uniting it with greece, someday, whatever the cost to the
 parties involved. the history speaks for itself. greece was the sole 
 perpetrator of invasion on that island when it sent its troops on july 
 15, 1974 in an attempt to topple the legitimate government of archibishop 
 makarios.
 
 following the greek cypriot attempt to annex the island to greece with 
 the aid of the greek army, turkiye intervened by using her legal right 
 given by two international agreements. turkiye did it for the frequently 
 and conveniently forgotten people of the island, turkish cypriots. for 
 those turkish cypriots whose grandparents have been living on the island 
 since 1571. 
 
 the release of nikos sampson, a member of eoka [national organization
 of cypriot fighters] and a convicted terrorist, shows that the
 'enosis' mentality continues to survive in greece. one should not
 forget that sampson dedicated his life to annihilating the turks
 in cyprus, committed murder to achieve this goal, and tried to
 destroy the island's independence by annexing it to greece. of
 course, the greek governments will have to bear the consequences 
 for this irresponsible conduct.
 
 
             the museum of barbarism
 
 2 irfan bey street, kumsal area, nicosia, cyprus
 
 it is the  house of dr. nihat  ilhan, a major who  was serving at
 the cyprus  turkish army contingent. during  the attacks launched
 against the turks by the greeks, on 20th december 1963, dr. nihat
 ilhan's  wife and  three  children were  ruthlessly and  brutally
 killed in the  bathroom, where they had tried to  hide, by savage
 greeks. dr.  nihat ilhan happened to  be on duty that  night, the
 24th   december  1963.   pictures  reflecting   greek  atrocities
 committed during and after 1963 are exhibited in this house which
 has been converted into a museum.
 
 an eye-witness account  of how a turkish family  was butchered by
 greek terrorists
 
 the date  is the 24th of  december, 1963... the onslaught  of the
 greeks against the turks, which  started three days ago, has been
 going on  with all its  ferocity; and defenseless women,  old men
 and children are being brutally  killed by greeks. and now kumsal
 area of nicosia witnesses the  worst example of the greeks savage
 bloodshed...
 
 the wife  and the  three infant  children of  dr. nihat  ilhan, a
 major on duty at the camp  of the cyprus turkish army contingent,
 are  mercilessly and  dastardly  shot dead  while  hiding in  the
 bathroom of their house, by  maddened greeks who broke into their
 home. a glaring example of greek barbarism.
 
 let us  now listen to the  relating of the said  incident told by
 mr. hasan  yusuf gudum, an  eye witness, who himself  was wounded
 during the same terrible event.
 
 "on the night of the 24th  of december, 1963 my wife feride hasan
 and i were paying a visit to the family of major dr. nihat ilhan.
 our neighbours  mrs. ayshe of  mora, her daughter ishin  and mrs.
 ayshe's  sister novber  were also  with us.  we were  all sitting
 having supper.  all of  a sudden bullets  from the  pedieos river
 direction started to riddle the  house, sounding like heavy rain.
 thinking  that   the  dining-room  where  we   were  sitting  was
 dangerous, we  ran to  the bathroom and  toilet which  we thought
 would be  safer. altogether we were  nine persons. we all  hid in
 the bathroom  except my wife  who took  refuge in the  toilet. we
 waited in fear. mrs. ilhan the wife of major doctor, was standing
 in the bath with her three children murat, kutsi and hakan in her
 arms. suddenly with  a great noise we heard the  front door open.
 greeks had  come in and were  combing, every corner of  the house
 with  their machine  gun bullets.  during these  moments i  heard
 voices saying, in  greek, "you want taksim eh!"  and then bullets
 started flying in the bathroom. mrs. ilhan and her three children
 fell into  the bath. they were  shot. at this moment  the greeks,
 who broke  into the bathroom, emptied  their guns on us  again. i
 heard one of the major's children moan, then i fainted.
 
 when i came  to myself 2 or  3 hours later, i saw  mrs. ilhan and
 her three children lying dead in the  bath. i and the rest of the
 neighbours in the  bathroom were all seriously  wounded. but what
 had happened to my wife? then i remembered and immediately ran to
 the  toilet, where,  in  the doorway,  i saw  her  body. she  was
 brutally murdered.
 
 in the  street admist the  sound of  shots i heard  voices crying
 "help, help. is  there no one to save us?"  i became terrified. i
 thought that  if the greeks came  again and found that  i was not
 dead they would kill  me. so i ran to the  bedroom and hid myself
 under the double-bed.
 
 an our  passed by. in the  distance i could still  hear shots. my
 mouth was dry,  so i came out  from under the bed  and drank some
 water. then i put  some sweets in my pocket and  went back to the
 bathroom, which was exactly as i had left in an hour ago. there i
 offered sweets  to mrs. ayshe,  her daughter and mrs.  novber who
 were all wounded.
 
 we  waited in  the bathroom  until 5  o'clock in  the morning.  i
 thought morning would never come.  we were all wounded and needed
 to be taken  to hospital. finally, as we could  walk, mrs. novber
 and i, went  out into the street hoping to  find help, and walked
 as far as koshklu chiftlik.
 
 there, we met  some people who took us to  hospital where we were
 operated on. when  i regained my consciousness i  said that there
 were more  wounded in the  house and  they went and  brought mrs.
 ayshe and her daughter.
 
 after staying three  days in the hospital i was  sent by plane to
 ankara  for  further treatment.  there  i  have had  four  months
 treatment but still i cannot use  my arm. on my return to cyprus,
 greeks arrested me at the airport.
 
 all  i have  related to  you above  i told  the greeks  during my
 detention. they then released me."
 
 on foot into cyprus's devastated turkish quarter
 
 we went tonight into the sealed-off turkish quarter of nicosia in
 which 200  to 300 people have  been slaughtered in the  last five
 days.
 
 we  were the  first  western  reporters there,  and  we saw  some
 terrible sights.
 
 in the kumsal quarter at no. 2, irfan bey sokagi, we made our way
 into  a house  whose floors  were  covered with  broken glass.  a
 child's bicycle lay in a corner.
 
 in the  bathroom, looking  like a group  of waxworks,  were three
 children piled on top of their murdered mother.
 
 in a room next to it we glimpsed  the body of a woman shot in the
 head.
 
 this, we  were told, was the  home of a turkish  army major whose
 family had been killed by the mob in the first violence.
 
 today was five days later, and still they lay there.
 
 rene maccoll and daniel mcgeachie, (from the "daily express")
 
 "...i saw in  a bathroom the bodies of a  mother and three infant
 children murdered because their father was a turkish officer..."
 
 max clos, le figaro 25-26 january, 1964
 
 
  peter moorhead reporting from the village of skyloura, cyprus. 
  date : 1 january, 1964. 
 
  il giarno (italy)
  
  they are turk-hunting, they want to exterminate them.
 
  discussions start in london; in cyprus terror continues. right now we
  are witnessing the exodus of turks from the villages. thousands of people
  abandoning homes, land, herds; greek cypriot terrorism is relentless. this 
  time, the rhetoric of the hellenes and the bust of plato do not suffice to 
  cover up barbaric and ferocious behaviors.
 
  article by giorgo bocca, correspondent of il giorno
  date: 14 january 1964
 
  daily herald (london)
 
  an appalling sight
 
 and when i came across the turkish homes they were an appalling sight.
 apart from the walls, they just did not exist. i doubt if a napalm bomb
 attack could have created more devastation. i counted 40 blackened brick
 and concrete shells that had once been homes. each house had been deliberately
 fired by petrol. under red tile roofs which had caved in, i found a twisted
 mass of bed springs, children's conts and cribs, and ankle deep grey
 ashes of what had once been chairs, tables and wardrobes.
 
 in the neighbouring village of ayios vassilios, a mile away, i counted 16 
 wrecked and burned out homes. they were all turkish cypriot homes. from
 this village more than 100 turkish cypriots had also vanished.in neither village
 did i find a scrap of damage to any greek cypriot house.
 
 
  daily telegraph (london)
  
  graves of 12 shot turkish cypriots found in cyprus village
 
  silent crowds gathered tonight outside the red crescent hospital in the
  turkish sector of nicosia, as the bodies of 9 turkish cypriots found
  crudely buried outside the village of ayios vassilios, 13 miles away, were
  brought to the hospital under the escort of the parachute regiment. three 
  more bodies, including one of a woman, were discovered nearby but could
  not be removed. turkish cypriots guarded by paratroops are still trying to 
  locate the bodies of 20 more believed to have been buried on the same site.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 