
 in article <1993apr15.132954.4396@news.columbia.edu> lasner@watsun.cc.columbia.edu (charles lasner) writes:
 
 >how dare you presume that he even has a right to go around a newsgroup 
 >with a desire to convince others of any external position he has.  
 
 they are news because they are the exceptions. and the 'islamic holocaust'
 is much the topic of the day. the historical evidence proves that during 
 the period of 1914 to 1920, the armenian government ordered, incited, 
 assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people 
 because of race, religion and national origin. armenians perpetrated acts 
 of sabotage, destroyed telephone cables, blew up bridges, blocked passes, 
 set up ambushes, attacked security stations and small turkish outposts 
 behind the ottoman army lines on the one hand, and on the other ruthlessly 
 attacked turkish and kurdish villages, slaughtering the turkish population 
 indiscriminately, women, children, old and young alike. innocent 
 muslims were one by one cruelly bayonetted to death, or massacred with 
 axes and swords, or else shut up in mosques or in schools and then burnt
 alive as can be seen below.
 
 widespread armenian massacres of innocent muslims took place in regions 
 of van, kars, sivas, erzurum, bitlis, erzincan, mus, diyarbakir and 
 maras. the ottoman army, while fighting to prevent the russian invasion,
 also had to deal with armenian genocide squads who cowardly hit from 
 behind. the armenian genocide of the muslims spread to all parts of 
 eastern anatolia. starting from late 1914, armenians committed 
 widespread massacres and genocide in eastern anatolia, because the arena
 was left to the armenians. almost every turkish town and village from 
 erzincan up to azerbaidjan suffered large scale massacres and genocide 
 by armenians and the turkish genocide has been documented by armenian, 
 russian, american, british, ottoman, german, austrian and french 
 journalists and officers who observed the first genocide of this century
 committed by the blood-thirsty armenian genocide squads.
 
 the ottoman army, liberating trabzon, bayburt, erzincan, erzurum, 
 kars and other regions from the russians, saw that the cities and their 
 villages had been destroyed and burnt, people slaughtered, massacred.
 the massacres conducted by armenians, which became a black stain for
 humanity, shocked and disgusted even the russian, british, german,
 austrian, french and american authorities.
 
 almost every ottoman document is related to armenian massacres and 
 cruelties. the inhuman treatment, cruelties, atrocities, genocide by 
 armenian genocide squads perpetrated against innocent moslem turkish 
 and kurdish people, are sufficiently reflected in historical documents. 
 even today over seventy-five years later, the terrifying screams of 
 the victims of these cruelties can be heard.
 
 
 source: documents: volume i (1919).
         "document no: 76," archive no: 1/2, cabin no: 109, drawer 
         no: 3, file no: 346, section no: 427(1385), contents no: 3, 52-53.
         (to lt. colonel seyfi, general headquarters, second section, 
         istanbul - dr. stephan eshnanie)
 
 'neues wiener tagblatt' - vienna, 'pester lloyd' 'local anzliger' - berlin,
 'algemeen handelsblat' - amsterdam, 'vakit' - istanbul.
 
 "i have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of russians and
  armenians from turkish territories through armenia. although two months
  have elapsed since the clearing of the territories of armenian gangs, i
  have been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the armenians at 
  almost every step. all the villages from trabzon to erzincan and from
  erzincan to erzurum are destroyed. corpses of turks brutally and cruelly
  slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to
  save their lives by escaping to mountains, the first horrible and fearful
  events begun when the russian forces evacuated the places which were then
  taken over by armenian gangs. the russians usually treated the people 
  well, but the people feared the intervention of the armenians. once these
  places had been taken over by the armenians, however, the massacres begun.
  they clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called the
  armenian and kurdish land from the turks and thus, solve the nationality
  problem. today i had the opportunity to meet austrian and german soldiers
  who had escaped from russian prison camps and come from kars and
  alexander paul (gumru-leninakan)...russian officers tried to save the 
  turks and there were clashes between russian officers and armenian gangs. 
  i am now in erzurum, and what i see is terrible. almost the whole city is 
  destroyed. the smell of the corpses still fills the air. although there are 
  speculations that armenian gangs murdered austrian and german prisoners as 
  well, i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard, but there is 
  proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war."
 
                                                      dr. stephan eshnanie
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 