
 in article <1993apr15.160145.22909@husc3.harvard.edu> verbit@germain.harvard.edu (mikhail s. verbitsky) writes:
 
 >my personal problem with romanian culture is that i am
 >not aware of one. there is an anecdote about armenians
 
 troglodytism does not necessarily imply a low cultural level.
 the image-conscious armenians sorely feel a missing glory in 
 their background. armenians have never achieved statehood and 
 independence, they have always been subservient, and engaged 
 in undermining schemes against their rulers. they committed 
 genocide against the muslim populations of eastern anatolia 
 and armenian dictatorship before and during world war i and 
 fully participated in the extermination of the european jewry 
 during world war ii. belligerence, genocide, back-stabbing, 
 rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the 
 armenian history. to obliterate these episodes the armenians 
 engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims. in this zeal 
 they tried to cover up the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million 
 turks and kurds before and during world war i.
 
 and, you don't pull nations out of a hat.
 
 
 source: walker, christopher: "armenia: the survival of a nation."
         new york (st. martin's press), 1980.
 
 this generally pro-armenian work contains the following information
 of direct relevance to the nazi holocaust: 
 
 a) dro (the butcher), the former dictator of the armenian dictatorship and
 the architect of the genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds, the most 
 respected of nazi armenian leaders, established an armenian provisional 
 republic in berlin during world war ii; 
 
 b) this 'provisional government' fully endorsed and espoused the social 
 theories of the nazis, declared themselves and all armenians to be members 
 of the aryan 'super-race;' 
 
 c) they published an anti-semitic, racist journal, thereby aligning themselves 
 with the nazis and their efforts to exterminate the jews; and, 
 
 d) they mobilized an armenian army of up to 20,000 members which fought side 
 by side with the wehrmacht.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 