
 in article <1993apr19.155856.8260@kpc.com> henrik@quayle.kpc.com  writes:
 
 >let me clearify mr. turkish;
 >armenia is not getting "itchy". she is simply letting the world know that 
 >she will no  longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous 
 >tricks. armenians do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of
 >cypress while the world simply watched. 
 
 and the 'turkish karabag' is next. as for 'cyprus', in 1974, turkiye 
 stepped into cyprus to preserve the lives of the turkish population 
 there. this is nothing but a simple historical fact. unfortunately, 
 the intervention was too late at least for some of the victims. mass 
 graves containing numerous bodies of women and children already showed 
 what fate had been planned for a peaceful minority.
 
 the problems in cyprus have their origin in decades of 
 oppression of the turkish population by the greek cypriot 
 officials and their violation of the co-founder status of 
 the turks set out in the constitution. the coup d'etat 
 engineered by greece in 1974 to execute a final solution 
 to the turkish problem was the savage blow that invoked 
 turkiye's intervention. turkiye intervened reluctantly and 
 only as a last resort after exhausting all other avenues 
 consulting with britain and greece as the other two signatories 
 to the treaty to protect the integrity of cyprus. there simply 
 was not any expansionist motivation in the turkish action at 
 all. this is in dramatic contrast to the greek motivation which 
 was openly expansionist, stated as 'enosis,' union with greece. 
 since the creation of independent cyprus in 1960, the turkish 
 population, although smaller, legally had status as the co-founder
 of the republic with the greek population.
 
 the greek cypriots, with the support of 'enosis'-minded
 greeks in the mainland, have consistently ignored that
 status and portrayed the island as a greek island with
 a minority population of turks. the turks of cyprus are
 not a minority in a greek republic and they found the
 only way they could show that was to assert their 
 autonomy in a separate republic.
 
 turkiye is not satisfied with the status quo. she would
 rather not be involved with the island. but, given the
 dismal record of brutal greek oppression of the turkish
 population in cyprus, she simply cannot leave the fate
 of the island's turks in the hands of the greeks until
 the turkish side is satisfied with whatever accord
 the two communities finally reach to guarantee that
 history will not repeat itself to rob turkish cypriots
 of their rights, liberties and their very lives.
 
 
   source: 'cyprus: the tale of an island,' a. h. rizvi, p. 42
 
   21-12-1963 throughout cyprus
   "following the greek cypriot premeditated onslaught of 21 december,
    1963, the turkish sectors all over cyprus were completely besieged
    by greeks; all telephonic, telegraphic and postal communications
    between these sectors were cut off and the turkish cypriot
    community's contact with each other and with the outside world
    was thus prevented."
 
   21-12-63 -- 31-12-63 turkish quarter of nicosia and suburbs
   "greek cypriot armed elements broke into hundreds of turkish
    homes and fired at the unarmed occupants with automatic
    weapons killing at random many turks, including women, children
    and elderly persons (51 turks were killed and 82 wounded). they
    also carried away as hostages more than 700 turks, including
    women and children, whom they forced to walk bare-footed and
    in night-dresses across rough fields and river beds."
 
    21-12-63 -- 12-12-64 throughout cyprus
    "the greek cypriot administration deprived turkish cypriots 
    including ministers, mps, and turkish members of the public
    services of the republic, of their right to freedom of movement."
 
    in his report no. s/6102 of 12 december, 1964 to the security
    council, the un secretary-general stated in this respect the
    following:
 
   "restrictions on the free movement of civilians have been one of
    the major features of the situation in cyprus since the early
    stages of the disturbances, these restrictions have inflicted
    considerable hardship on the population, especially the turkish
    cypriot community, and have kept tension high."
 
    25-9-1964 -- 31-3-1968 throughout cyprus
   
       "supply of petrol was completely denied to the turkish sections."
 
    makarios addresses un security council on 19 july 1974
    after being ousted by the greek junta coup
 
    "in the beginning i wish to express my sincere thanks to all the
    members of the security council for the great interest they have
    shown in the critical situation which has been created in cyprus
    after the coup organized by the military regime in greece and
    carried out by the greek army officers who were serving in the
    national guard and were commanding it.
 
    [..]
 
    13-3-1975 on the road travelling to the south to the freedom of
              the north
 
    "a turkish woman was seriously wounded and her four-month old
    baby was riddled with bullets from an automatic weapon fired by
    a greek cypriot mobile patrol which had ambushed the car in which
    the mother and her baby were travelling to the turkish region.
    the baby died in her mother's arms.
 
    this wanton murder of a four-month-old baby, which shocked foreign
    observers as much as the turkish community, was not committed by
    irresponsible persons, but by members of the greek cypriot security
    forces. according to the mother's statement the greek police patrol
    had chased their car and deliberately fired upon it."
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 