
 in article <1993apr19.234534.18368@kpc.com> henrik@quayle.kpc.com  writes:
 
 >   buch of crap and you know it. nagarno-karabagh has always been part 
 >   of armenia and it was stalin who gave it to the azeris. go back and
 >   review the history.  
 
 if a 'dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky.
 did you know that the word 'karabag' itself is a 'turkish' name? 
 before 1827, before the russians and their 'zavalli kole' armenians, 
 drove all the turks/muslims out, it was a turkish majority town. well,
 anyway, it is not surprising that armenians also collaborated with the 
 nazis.
 
  "wholly opportunistic the dashnaktzoutun have been variously
   pro-nazi, pro-russia, pro-soviet armenia, pro-arab, pro-jewish,
   as well as anti-jewish, anti-zionist, anti-communist, and 
   anti-soviet - whichever was expedient."[1]
 
 [1] john roy carlson (arthur derounian), 'cairo to damascus,' 
     alfred a. knopf, new york, 1951, p. 438.
   
 as a dear friend put it, the tzeghagrons (armenian racial patriots) 
 was the youth organization of the dashnaktzoutun. it was based in
 boston (where asala/sdpa/arf terrorism triangle is located) but 
 had followers in armenian colonies all over the world. literally
 tzeghagron means 'to make a religion of one's race.' the architect
 of the armenian racial patriots was garegin nezhdeh, a nazi armenian
 who became a key leader of collaboration with hitler in world war ii.
 in 1933, he had been invited to the united states by the central
 committee of the dashnaktzoutun to inspire and organize the 
 american-armenian youth. nezhdeh succeeded in unifying many local
 armenian youth groups in the tzeghagrons. starting with 20
 chapters in the initial year, the tzeghagrons grew to 60 chapters
 and became the largest and most powerful nazi armenian organization.
 nezhdeh also provided the tzeghagrons with a philosophy:
 
  "the racial religious beliefs in his racial blood as a deity.
   race above everything and before everything. race comes first."[1]
 
 [1] quoted in john roy carlson (real name arthur derounian), "the
     armenian displaced persons," in 'armenian affairs,' winter,
     1949-50, p. 19, footnote.
 
 
 now wait, there is more.
 
 the gruesome extent of february's killings of azeris by armenians
 in the town  of hojali is at last emerging  in azerbaijan - about
 600 men,  women and  children dead  in the  worst outrage  of the
 four-year war over nagorny karabakh.
 
 the figure  is drawn  from azeri investigators,  hojali officials
 and casualty lists published in the baku press. diplomats and aid
 workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates.
 
 the 25  february attack on hojali  by armenian forces was  one of
 the last moves  in their four-year campaign to  take full control
 of nagorny karabakh,  the subject of a new  round of negotiations
 in rome on monday. the bloodshed was something between a fighting
 retreat and  a massacre, but  investigators say that most  of the
 dead were civilians. the awful  number of people killed was first
 suppressed by  the fearful  former communist government  in baku.
 later  it  was blurred  by  armenian  denials and  grief-stricken
 azerbaijan's wild  and contradictory  allegations of up  to 2,000
 dead.
 
 the state prosecuter, aydin rasulov,  the cheif investigator of a
 15-man  team  looking  into  what azerbaijan  calls  the  "hojali
 disaster", said  his figure of 600  people dead was a  minimum on
 preliminary  findings.  a similar  estimate  was  given by  elman
 memmedov, the mayor of hojali. an  even higher one was printed in
 the baku newspaper  ordu in may - 479 dead  people named and more
 than 200 bodies reported unidentified.  this figure of nearly 700
 dead is quoted as official by leila yunusova, the new spokeswoman
 of the azeri ministry of defence.
 
 francois zen  ruffinen, head  of delegation of  the international
 red cross  in baku, said  the muslim imam  of the nearby  city of
 agdam had reported a figure of  580 bodies received at his mosque
 from  hojali, most  of  them  civilians. "we  did  not count  the
 bodies. but  the figure seems  reasonable. it is no  fantasy," mr
 zen ruffinen said. "we have some idea since we gave the body bags
 and products to wash the dead."
 
 mr  rasulov endeavours  to give  an unemotional  estimate of  the
 number of  dead in the  massacre. "don't  get worked up.  it will
 take  several months  to  get a  final  figure," the  43-year-old
 lawyer said at his small office.
 
 mr rasulov  knows about these  things. it  took him two  years to
 reach  a firm  conclusion that  131  people were  killed and  714
 wounded  when  soviet  troops  and tanks  crushed  a  nationalist
 uprising in baku in january 1990.
 
 those  nationalists, the  popular  front, finally  came to  power
 three weeks  ago and  are applying pressure  to find  out exactly
 what  happened when  hojali, an  azeri town  which lies  about 70
 miles from the border with armenia, fell to the armenians.
 
 officially, 184 people have so  far been certified as dead, being
 the  number of  people that  could be  medically examined  by the
 republic's forensic department. "this  is just a small percentage
 of the dead," said rafiq youssifov, the republic's chief forensic
 scientist. "they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the
 chaos and the fact that we are  muslims and have to wash and bury
 our dead within 24 hours."
 
 of these 184 people, 51 were women, and 13 were children under 14
 years old.  gunshots killed  151 people,  shrapnel killed  20 and
 axes or  blunt instruments  killed 10.  exposure in  the highland
 snows killed the last three.  thirty-three people showed signs of
 deliberate mutilation, including ears,  noses, breasts or penises
 cut off and  eyes gouged out, according  to professor youssifov's
 report. those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those
 believed to have been killed, mr rasulov said.
 
 files  from  mr  rasulov's  investigative  commission  are  still
 disorganised -  lists of 44  azeri militiamen are dead  here, six
 policemen there,  and in handwriting  of a mosque  attendant, the
 names of  111 corpses brought to  be washed in just  one day. the
 most heartbreaking account from  850 witnesses interviewed so far
 comes  from towfiq  manafov,  an azeri  investigator  who took  a
 helicopter  flight  over  the  escape route  from  hojali  on  27
 february.
 
 "there were too many bodies of  dead and wounded on the ground to
 count properly: 470-500  in hojali, 650-700 people  by the stream
 and the road and 85-100  visible around nakhchivanik village," mr
 manafov  wrote in  a  statement countersigned  by the  helicopter
 pilot.
 
 "people waved up  to us for help. we saw  three dead children and
 one  two-year-old alive  by  one  dead woman.  the  live one  was
 pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. we tried to land but
 armenians started a barrage against  our helicopter and we had to
 return."
 
 there  has been  no consolidation  of  the lists  and figures  in
 circulation because  of the political  upheavals of the  last few
 months and the  fact that nobody knows exactly who  was in hojali
 at the time - many inhabitants were displaced from other villages
 taken over by armenian forces.
 
 the independent, london, 12/6/'92
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 