
 in article <735251412@amazon.cs.duke.edu> wiener@duke.cs.duke.edu (eduard wiener) writes:
 
 >	   why don't you post this in english, mike?
 >	   this appears to mean -- "milan, it seems that
 >	   some greek has fucked you."
 
 is that what turns you on? the truth needs to be told over and over 
 again. there are armenians who of course witnessed the armenian genocide 
 of 2.5 million muslim people between 1914-1920 but their voices of truth 
 are suppressed today in the hollow din of anti-turkish/muslim campaign
 by the asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle of the fascist 
 x-soviet armenian government. well, that is what i saw in the library.
 what's your problem with this?
 
 
 source: k. s. papazian, "patriotism perverted," baikar press, boston, 1934.
 
 pp. 17-18.
 
 "it seems that terrorism against their own co-nationals has been a prominent
  part of the revolutionary activities of the dashnag leaders of the caucasus.
  organized to fight the turks, these chieftains have been more successful
  in their fight against their armenian opponents in turkey, and the caucasus,
  very often defenseless and innocent."
 
 p. 38.
 
 "the fact remains, however, that the leaders of the turkish armenian section
  of the dashnagtzoutune did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the
  turkish cause when the turks entered the war...and a call was sent for 
  armenian volunteers to fight the turks on the caucasian front."
 
 p. 38.
 
 "thousands of armenians from all over the world, flocked to the standards of
  such famous fighters as antranik, kery, dro, etc. the armenian volunteer
  regiments rendered valuable service to the russian army in the years of
  1914-15-16."
 
 
 source: "adventures in the near east, 1918-1922" by a. rawlinson,
 jonathan cape, 30 bedford square, london, 1934 (first published 1923) 
 (287 pages).
 (memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
  million muslim people)
 
 p. 184 (second paragraph)
 
  "i had received further very definite information of horrors that
   had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain, and as 
   i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
   treatment of my own detached parties, i had wired to tiflis from 
   zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the armenians should not 
   be left in independent command of the moslem population, as, their 
   troops being without discipline and not under effective control, 
   atrocities were constantly being committed, for which we should 
   with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'."
 
 p. 177 (third paragraph)
 
  "armenian troops, who, having pillaged and destroyed all the
   moslem villages in the plain...."
 
  "caravans of refugees were in the meanwhile constantly arriving from the
   plain, from which the whole moslem population was fleeing with as much of
   their personal property as they could transport, seeking to obtain security
   and protection..."
 
 p. 178 (first paragraph)
 
  "in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched 
   for arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of 
   such search, and not only had many moslems been killed, but horrible 
   tortures had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as 
   to where valuables had been hidden, of which the armenians were aware 
   of the existence, although they had been unable to find them."
 
 p. 179 (first paragraph)
 
  "shortly afterwards the head of the miserable column appeared. there 
   were in all about 200 persons, mostly old men and women and children, 
   with a few ox-carts, ponies, and donkeys, carrying all their worldly 
   possessions, except a few sheep that they were driving before them. 
   their leader interviewed bekir bey, and was told to keep farther on 
   into the hills, where he would be able to cross the frontier into 
   turkey unmolested by his enemies."
 
 p. 181 (first paragraph)
 
  "the armenians from the plain were attacking the kurdish line with 
   artillery, with probably a large force in support."
 
 p. 175 (first paragraph)
 
  "the arrival of this british brigade was followed by the announcement
   that kars province had been allotted by the supreme council of the
   allies to the armenians, and that announcement having been made, the
   british troops were then completely withdrawn, and armenian occupation
   commenced. hence all the trouble; for the armenians at once commenced
   the wholesale robbery and persecution of the muslem population on the
   pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms.
   in the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able
   to carry out their purpose, and the manner in which this was done will
   be referred to in due course."
 
 the following news from turan news agency in baku-azerbaijan
 is brought to you as a service of:
 
                   <azerbaijan aydinlig association>
                          p.o. box 14571
                        berkeley, ca 94701
                       fax: (804) 490-3832
                     email: farid@mem.odu.edu
 
 * azerbaijan's government appeals to compatriots all over the world
 * 60 refugees from kelbajar perished in their escape lorries 
 * situation in the region of kelbajar
 * armenian army continues attack on fizuli
 * press-conference of the chief of press-service of president of azerbaijan 
 * azerbaijanis picket in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia
 * picket of sadvalers in moscow
 * attack of armenian units stopped
 * statement of ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan
 
 
 
 azerbaijan's government appeals to compatriots all over the world
 
    baku (april 5) turan: today, azerbaijan's government appealed 
 to azeris all over the world in connection with escalation of the 
 armenian aggression against the republic.  
   it is stressed in appeal that the experience of five-years of fighting
 for independence from imperial chains shows a grim process . the war
 against azerbaijan under the pretence of protecting the human rights of 
 the armenians of ukhari (upper) garabag, has meant the destruction of
 azeri villages and towns, occupation of 10 percent of the territory, 60
 thousand new refugees in addition to 500 thousand already in place.
 this is all the price of fighting for liberty from russian imperial rule,
 is said in the document. 
    azerbaijan's government appeals to all compatriots to make every
 effort to inform the people of the world about the truth in azerbaijan,
 and to assistance in solving the problems facing the young state.
    it is stressed in the appeal that there is urgent need for medicine,
 food, experienced doctors and financial help to settle refugees from
 kelbajar, fizuli and lachin regions, and to render medical aid for the 
 sick and the wounded men.--o--
 
 
 60 refugees from kelbajar perished in their escape lorries 
 
      baku (april 5) turan: today, during the evacuation from kelbajar
 region, 60 refugees on board two lorries were killed in the fire from the
 armenian tanks on the only road to leave kelbajar. according to press
 -service of azerbaijan president, no one survived the tragedy. --o--
 
 
 situation in the region of kelbajar
 
    baku (5 april) turan: attempts to evacuate the rest of 15,000
 citizens, encircled on alpine villages of the region of kelbajar 
 went on within the last twenty-four hours. evacuation helicopters
 could not land near these villages because of shelling from the
 armenian side and existence of fog. measures are undertaken to air-drop
 food and medicine to the encircled people.
    several hundred people succeed within the last twenty-four hours to
 get out of the region of kelbajar via mountain range. refugees are 
 settled in the neighboring regions of azerbaijan and in ganja. 
 authorities face serious problem with rendering refugees medical 
 aid and food. the number of refugees from kelbajar is over 40,000 people.
 azerbaijan is not capable of handling a disaster of this magnitude.--0--
 
 
 armenian army continues attack on fizuli
 
    baku (5 april) turan: the region of fizuli of azerbaijan, 
 situated outside of the territory of daglig (nagorno) garabag, has been
 subjected to heaviest attacks of armenian army for the fourth day. about
 30 armored technique and more than 500 soldiers of the enemy are taking
 part in the attack.
    armenian units broke the defence line of the azeri forces and occupied
 the ruling height from where the town is shelled from "grad" installations,
 this morning. there is heavy destructions in the town and more than 20
 people are dead. population of the town is hastily evacuated.--0--
 
 
 press-conference of the chief of press-service of president of azerbaijan
 
    baku (5 april) turan: fifty-five thousand refugees from the region
 of kelbajar were taken out by 11 o'clock on april 5, informed the chief
 of the press-service of president of azerbaijan, arif aliev, today.
    journalists were also informed at the press-conference that
 international red cross is helping to accept and render refugees medical
 aid. there is an urgent need to supply the refugees with tents, food and
 medical aid.
    arif aliev informed that as a result of the ongoing tragedy brought
 on by the latest aggression of armenia, the leadership of azerbaijan
 intends to appeal to azerbaijanis and all those who treasure human life
 all over the world for help.
    concerning the reaction of the international community to aggression 
 of armenia, aliev said the department of state of the usa has expressed
 its anxiety to leadership of armenia.
    participants of peace efforts in daglig (nagorno) garabag under
 csce, rafaelli, mareska and chetin strongly blamed the aggression of 
 armenia against azerbaijan.
    leader of press-service informed that tomorrow ambassador of 
 azerbaijan in russia, hikmet haji-zade, will conduct a press-conference
 in moscow. detailed information on latest events in the region of
 kelbajar of azerbaijan will be given at the press-conference.--0--
 
 
 azerbaijanis picket in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia
 
    baku (5 april) turan: azerbaijanis, living in moscow, picketed
 in front of the building of the ministry of foreign affairs of russia.
 picket was conducted as a token of protest against participation of
 russian units in capture of the region of kelbajar of azerbaijan by
 armenians. about 100 people took part in the picket, organized by
 azerbaijani society "dayag".--0--
 
 
 picket of sadvalers in moscow
 
    baku (5 april) 30-40 members of "sadval" society picketed before
 the building of permanent representation of azerbaijan in moscow.
 picketers were demanding the return of lezghins lands, as if annexed
 by azerbaijan.
    ambassador of azerbaijan in moscow, hikmet haji-zade classified
 this action as provocation aimed at creating a further inter-ethnic
 conflict in azerbaijan. he marked in his talk with the turan
 correspondent that he does not rule out a connection between the
 armenian aggression in the region of kelbajar and this anti-
 azerbaijani action of the "sadval" society in moscow. he also
 marked that 30-40 people do not mean the lezghian nationality in
 the whole.
    society of lezghins, "sadval", registered in moscow in 1990,
 demands the creation of a lezghistan state, which never existed
 before on the northern territories of azerbaijan.--0--
 
 
 attack of armenian units stopped
 
    baku (5 april) turan: attack of armenian army on the town of 
 fizuli, which began in the last twenty-four hours, is stopped, informs 
 the press-service of the ministry of defence of azerbaijan.
    in the result of undertaken measures, 6 tanks and a number of 
 the attackers were destroyed. advance units of the armenian army
 retreated several kilometers.
    chairman of the parliament, isa gambar, visited the town of 
 fizuli and met with commanders of the units of the national army
 and local citizens, today.--0--
 
 
 statement of ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan
 
    baku (5 april) turan: ministry of foreign affairs of azerbaijan 
 issued a statement in connection with aggression of armenia in the
 region of kelbajar of azerbaijan.
    it is stated in the statement that regular units of the armed
 forces of armenia captured the town of kelbajar on april 3 .
   attack of armenian units, which began on march 27 deep in the
 territory of azerbaijan still continues. armenia has occupied at
 present 7500 sq.km of the territory of azerbaijan.
    spreading of armenian aggression far away from ukhari (upper)
 garabag proves that the armenian-azerbaijani conflicts has entered a
 specially dangerous phase. this is the result of non-recognition of 
 armenia as an aggressor by the international community, is marked
 in the document.
    it is stressed in the statement that the units of the 7th russian
 army are participating in the armenian attack. this casts doubt on
 the sincerity of russian mediation efforts in finding a peaceful
 solution to the conflict.
    it is marked in conclusion that aggressive actions of armenia 
 have wrecked the negotiation process under aegis of csce.
    the document contains the appeal to the world community to stop
 armenian aggression and to use political and economic sanctions
 against the aggressor.--0--
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 