
 in article <2bd220b1.22816@news.service.uci.edu> tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes:
 
 >>>>i sure hope so. because, the unspeakable crimes of the armenians must 
 >>>>be righted. armenian invaders burned and sacked the fatherland of 
 >>
 >>>no!  no!  no no no no no.  it is not justifiable to right wrongs of
 >>>previous years.  
 
 >well, there is a bit: such as the german reparations to the jewish
 >survivors of the holocaust. certainly, as such an event goes further 
 >into the past, reparations become less realistic.
 
 i was convinced that no one could have a more warped sense of the
 world. they were 'our' grandparents who were cold-bloodedly exterminated
 by the armenians between 1914 and 1920, not yours. and you can always
 participate in 'the turkish genocide day' along with millions of turkish 
 and kurdish people on april 23, 1993 in the united states and canada. 
 
 ...on this occasion, we once again reiterate the unquestioned 
 justice of the restitution of turkish and kurdish rights and...
 
 - we demand that the x-soviet armenian government admit its 
 responsibility for the turkish and kurdish genocide, render 
 reparations to the muslim people, and return the land to its 
 rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has become an 
 issue which cannot be delayed further, and it is imperative that 
 artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed.
 
 - we believe the time has come to demand from the the united states 
 that it formally recognizes the turkish and kurdish genocide, adopts 
 the principles of our demands and refuses to accede to armenian pressures 
 to the contrary.
 
 - as taxpayers of the united states, we express our vehement 
 protest to the present u.s. government policy of continued 
 coddling, protection and unqualified assistance towards x-soviet
 armenia.
 
 - we also demand that the united states return to the policies 
 advocated by u.s. ambassador bristol and other enlightened statesmen,
 who have undertaken a just, human and benevolent attitude towards 
 the rights of the muslim people and the just resolution of their case.
 
 - our territorial demands are strictly aimed at x-soviet armenia's.
 
 
 and in article <2bac262d.25249@news.service.uci.edu>, you have blatantly
 lied:
 
 >the goltz article was not published in the sunday times magazine
 >on march 1, 1992, but in the guardian sunday section. 
 
 well, still anxiously awaiting...
 
 cis commander pulls troops out of karabagh :
 
 "elif kaban, a reuter correspondent in agdam, reported that after a battle 
  on wednesday, azeris were burying scores of people who died when armenians 
  overran the town of khojaly, the second-biggest azeri settlement in the 
  area. 'the world is turning its back on what's happening here. we are dying 
  and you are just watching,' one mourner shouted at a group of journalists."
  helen womack
  the independent, 2/29/92
 
 armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families:
 
 "the attackers killed most of the soldiers and volunteers defending the 
  women and children.  they then turned their guns on the terrified refugees.  
  the few survivors later described what happened: 'that's when the real 
  slaughter began,' said azer hajiev, one of the three soldiers to survive.  
  'the armenians just shot and shot. and they came in and started carving 
  up people with their bayonets and knives.'  a 45-year-old man who had been 
  shot in the back  said:' we were walking through the brush. then they opened 
  up on us and people were falling all around.  my wife fell, then my child."
  thomas goltz
  sunday times, 3/1/92
 
 armenian raid leaves azeris dead or fleeing:
 
 "...about 1,000 of khojaly's 10,000 people were killed in tuesdays attack. 
  azerbaijani television showed truckloads of corpses being evacuated from 
  the khocaly area."
  brian killen (reuters)
  the washington times, 3/2/92
 
 atrocity reports horrify azerbaijan :
 
 "azeri officials who returned from the seen to this town about nine miles 
  away brought back three dead children, the backs of their heads blown off...
  'women and children had been scalped,' said assad faradzev, an aide to 
  karabagh's azeri governor.  azeri television showed pictures of one 
  truckload of bodies brought to the azeri town of agdam, some with their 
  faces apparently scratched with knives or their eyes gouged out."
  brian killen (reuters)
  the washington times, 3/3/92
 
 massacre by armenians being reported:
 
 "the republic of armenia reiterated denials that its militants had 
  killed 1,000 [azeris]... but dozens of bodies scattered over the 
  area lent credence to azerbaijani reports of a massacre."
  (reuters)
  the new york times, 3/3/92
 
 killings rife in nagorno-karabagh, moldova:
 
 "journalists in the area reported seeing dozens of corpses, including some 
  of the civilians, and azerbaijani officials said armenians began shooting 
  at them when they sought to recover the bodies."
  fred hiatt
  the washington post, 3/3/92
 
 bodies mark site of karabagh massacre:
 
 "a local truce was enforced to allow the azerbaijanis to collect their dead 
  and any refugees still hiding in the hills and forest.  all are the bodies 
  of ordinary people, dressed in the poor, ugly clorhing of workers. of the 31 
  we saw only one policeman and two apparent national volunteers were wearing 
  uniform.  all the rest were civilians, including eight women and three small
  children. two groups, apparently families, had fallen together, the children 
  cradled in the women's arms.  several of them, including one small girl, had 
  terrible head injuries: only her face was left. survivors have told how they 
  saw armenians shooting them point blank as they lay on the ground."
  anatol lieven
  the times (london), 3/3/92
 
 karabagh survivors flee to mountains:
 
 "geyush gassanov, the deputy mayor of khocaly, said that armenian troops 
  surrounded the town after 7 pm on tuesday. they were accompanied by six 
  or seven light tanks and armoured carriers.  'we thought they would just 
  bombard the village, as they had in the past, and then retreat.  but they 
  attacked, and our defence force couldn't do anything against their tanks.'  
  other survivors described how they had been fired on repeatedly on their 
  way through the mountains to safety. 'for two days we crawled most of the 
  way to avoid gunfire,' sukru aslanov said.  his daughter was killed in the 
  battle for khodjaly, and his brother and son died on the road."
  anatol lieven
  the times (london), 3/3/92
 
 corpses litter hills in karabagh:
 
 "as we swooped low over the snow covered hills of nagorno-karabagh we saw 
  the scattered corpses. apparently, the refugees had been shot down as 
  they ran...suddenly there was a thump...[our azerbaijani helicopter] had 
  been fired on from an armenian anti-aircraft post..."
  anatol lieven
  the times (london), 3/4/92
 
 "police in western azerbaijan said they had recovered the bodies of 
  120 azerbaijanis killed as they fled an armenian assault in the 
  disputed enclave of nagorno-karabagh and said they were blocked from 
  recovering more bodies."
  the wall street journal, 3/4/92
 
 exiting troops attacked in nagorno-karabagh:
 
 "withdrawal halted;  armenians blamed...
  more video footage and reports from khocaly paint a grim picture of 
  widespread civilian deaths and mutilation...
  one woman's feet appeared to have been bound..."
  paul quinn-judge
  the boston globe, 3/4/92
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 