
 i have found jewish people very imagentative and creative. jewish religion was the foundation for christianity and
 islam.  in other words judaism has fathered both religions. now islam has turned against its father i may say.
 it is ironic that after communizem threat is almost gone, religion wars are going to be on the raise. 
 i thought the idea of believing on one god, was to unite all man kind. how come both jews and islam which believe
 on the same god, "the god of ebrahim" are killing each other? is this like dr. frankenstien's story?
 how are you going to stop this from happening? how are you going to deal with so many muslims. nuking them 
 would distroy the whole world? would god get mad, since you have killed his followers, you believe on the same
 god, same heaven and the same hell after all? what is the peacefull way of ending this saga?
 
 
 man kind needs religion, since it sets up the rules and the regulations which keeps the society in a healthy state.
 a religion is mostly a sets of rules which people have experienced and know it works for the society.
 the praying, keeps the sole healthy and meditates it. god does not care for man kinds pray, but man kind hopes
 that god will help him when he prays.
 religion works mostly on the moral issues and trys to put away the materialistic things in the life. but the 
 religious leaders need to make a living through religion? so they  may corrupt it, or turn it to their own way to
 make their living. i.e muslims have to pay  %20 percent of their income to the mullahs. i guess the rabie  gets his
 cut too! 
 
 is in it that religion should be such that everybody on planet earth respects each other, be good toward each other
 helps one another, respect the mother nature. is in that heaven and hell are created on earth through the acts 
 that we take today?  is in it that within every man there is good and bad, he could choose either one, then he will
 see the outcome of his choice.  how can we prevent man kind from going crazy over religion. how can we stop
 another religious killing field, under poor gods name? what are your thoughts? do you think man kind would
 to come its senses, before it is too late?
 
 
 p.s. on the side
 
 do you think that moses saw the god on mount sina? why would god go to top of the mountain? he created
 the earth, he could have been anywhere? why on top the mountain? was it because people thought to see god
 you have to reach to the skies/heavens? why god kept coming back to middle east? was it because they created
 god through their imagination?  is that why jewish people were told by god, they were the chosen ones?
 
 profit mohammad was married to khadijeh. she was a jewish. she taught him how to trade. she probably taught
 him about judaism. quran is mostly copy right of taurah (sp? old testement). do you think god wrote quran?
 makeh was a trade city before islam. do you think it was made to be the center of islamic world because mohammad
 wanted to expand his trade business? is that why  god has put his house in there? 
 
 i think this religious stuff has gone too far. all man kind are going to hurt from it if they do not wise up.
 look at david koresh, how that turned out? i am afraid in the bigger scale, the jews and the muslims will
 have the same ending!!!!!!!!
 
 religion is needed in the sense to keep people in harmony and keep them doing good things, rather than
 plotting each others distruction.  there is one earth, one life and one god. let's all man kind be good toward
 each other.
 
 god help us all.
 peace
 