
 in article <1993apr20.190606.13801@kpc.com> henrik@quayle.kpc.com  writes:
 
 da] armenia is involved in fighting with azarbaijan.  it is armenian
 da] soldiers from mainland armenia that are shelling towns in azarbaijan.
 
 >    well, this is your opinion ! 
 
 are you related to 'arromdian' of asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism
 triangle? if you feel that you can simply act as a fascist armenian 
 governmental crony in this forum you will be sadly mistaken and duly 
 embarrassed. this is not a lecture to another historical revisionist 
 and a genocide apologist, but a fact. this time, fascist x-soviet armenian 
 government will not get away with the genocide of 204,000 azeri men, women 
 and children. not a chance.
 
 >
  the sunday times 8 march 1992
 >
  morgues fill as azeris head for all-out war
  -------------------------------------------
 >
  thomas goltz, the first to report the massacre by armenian soldiers in
  the worst violence since the breakup of the soviet union, reports from
  agdam
  ------
 >
  khojaly used to be a barren town, with empty shops and treeless dirt
  roads. yet it was still home to thousands of people who, in happier
  times, tended fields and flocks of geese. last week it was wiped off
  the map.
 >
  .......
 >
  as sickening reports trickled in to the azerbaijani border town of
  agdam, and the bodies piled up in the morgues, there was little doubt
  that khojaly and the stark foothills and gullies around it had been
  the site of the most terrible massacre since the soviet union broke
  apart.
  .......
 >
  i was the last westerner to visit khojaly. that was in january and
  people were predicting their fate with grim resignation. zumrut ezoya,
  a mother of four on board the helicopter that ferried us into the
  town, called her community "sitting ducks, ready to get shot". she and
  her family were among the victims of the massacre on february 26.
  .......
 >
  "the armenians have taken all the outlying villages, one by one, and
  the government does nothing." balakisi sakikov, 55, a father of five,
  said. "next they will drive us out or kill us all," said dilbar, his
  wife. the couple, their three sons and three daughters were killed in
  the assault, as were many other people i had spoken to.
  ......
 >
  "it was close to the armenian lines we knew we would have to cross.
  there was a road, and the first units of the column ran across then
  all hell broke loose. bullets were raining down from all sides. we had
  just entered their trap."
 >
  the azeri defenders picked off one by one. survivors say that armenian
  forces then began a pitiless slaughter, firing at anything moved in
  the gullies. a video taken by an azeri cameraman, wailing and crying
  as he filmed body after body, showed a grizzly trail of death leading
  towards higher, forested ground where the villagers had sought refuge
  from the armenians.
 >
  "the armenians just shot and shot and shot," said omar veyselov, lying
  in hospital in agdam with sharapnel wounds. "i saw my wife and
  daughter fall right by me."
 >
  people wandered through the hospital corridors looking for news of the
  loved ones. some vented their fury on foreigners: " where is my
  daughter, where is my son ?" wailed a mother. "raped. butchered. lost."
 >
  azerbaijan has said as many as 1,000 refugees were killed as they
  tried to flee. the armenians have denied this, saying the civilians
  were caught in "crossfire".
  .......
 >
 
 source: the times, 2 march 1992.
 
 corpses litter hills in karabakh
 
 anatol lieven comes under fire while flying with azerbaijani forces to 
 investigate the alleged mass killings of refugees by armenian troops...
 
 as we swooped low over the snow-covered hills of nagorno-karabagh we saw 
 the scattered corpses. apparently, the refugees had been shot down as 
 they ran. an azerbaijani film of the places we flew over, shown to 
 journalists afterwards, showed dozens of corpses lying in various parts 
 of the hills.
 
 the azerbaijanis claim that as many as 1000 have died in a mass killing 
 of azerbaijanis fleeing from the town of khodjaly, seized by armenians 
 last week. a further 4,000 are believed to be wounded, frozen to death 
 or missing... 
 
 seven of us squatted in the cabin of an azerbaijani m24 attack helicopter 
 as we flew to investigate the claims of the mass killings. suddenly there 
 was a thump against the underside of the aircraft, a red flash of tracer 
 ripped past the starboard wing, and the helicopter rocked sharply. we 
 swung round, and there was a deafening burst of fire from the cannon 
 under our wing as the helicopter crew returned fire.
 
 we had been fired on from an armenian anti-aircraft post. we swung round 
 again, tipped to starboard and appeared to dive straight down into a 
 valley. the brown earth swooped around our heads, the helicopter swung 
 round again and followed the contours of the ground. our cannon fired 
 repeated blasts.
 
 later it emerged that a civilian helicopter that we had been escorting 
 had landed successfully at nakhichevanik in the east of the disputed 
 enclave of nagorno-karabakh, to pick up some of the dead. we had, in 
 fact, been attacked both by ground fire and by an armenian helicopter. 
 i had seen the armenian helicopter intermittently through the window, 
 its cannons firing, but had thought - mistakenly - that it was on 
 "our side". our group of western journalists had embarked on a 
 search-and-rescue flight that had become a combat mission.
 
 our flight consisted of the civilian passenger helicopter and two 
 m24 soviet attack helicopters in the azerbaijani service, nicknamed 
 flying crocodiles for their armour. our party was in the second 
 crocodile. the civilian helicopter's job was to land in the mountains 
 and pick up bodies at sites of the mass killings. the attack helicopters 
 were there to give covering fire if necessary.
 
 the operation showed a striking sign of the disintegration of the soviet 
 armed forces because our pilot was a russian officer. an azerbaijani 
 official told us that there were now five former soviet military 
 helicopters -and their pilots- fighting for azerbaijan. "they have 
 signed contracts to fly for us," he said. the helicopter we engaged 
 in combat was most probably flown by a brother-officer of our russian 
 pilot, but fighting for the armenians.
 
 we had taken off just before 5pm on saturday from agdam airfield, an 
 heated for the armenian-controlled mountains of karabakh, a sheer 
 white wall in the distance. the civilian helicopter picked up four 
 corpses, and it was during this and a previous mission that an 
 azerbaijani cameraman filmed the several the several dozen bodies 
 on the hillsides. we then took off again in a hurry and speed back 
 towards azerbaijani lines. azerbaijani gunners on the last hill before 
 the plain - and safety - gazed up at us as we passed.
 
 back at the airfield in agdam, we took a look the bodies the 
 civilian helicopter had picked up. two old men a small girl were 
 covered with blood, their limbs contorted by the cold and rigor 
 mortis. they had been shot.
 
 what did our russian pilot think of the tragedy, our close shave, 
 and the war in nagorno-karabakh? he gave us cheerful grin, politely 
 declined to answer ques tions, and marched off to his dinner.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 