
 
 in my postings i have made a proposal for comments and discussion.
 those who don't want to discuss its merits and drawbacks are not forced to
 do so.
 
 however i would make anybody who incites others to harm me or harass
 in a personal manner, legally responsible for their deeds. i cannot
 accept and will not accept threats to my personal integrity and i
 urge anybody who opposes terror to refrain from direct or indriect
 threats.
 
 ps: my proposal has nothing to do with nazi eugenics. it has to do with
 the search for peace which would enable justice. i don't consider that
 justice is done, when non-jews who fled or were expelled in 1948/1967
 are not permitted to return to their homeland. this can at best be called
 pragmatism, a nice word for legitimizing the rule of the strong. it can
 never be called justice. and peace without justice will never be peace.
 it is my conviction that the situation in which a state, through the
 law, attempts to discourage mixed marriages (as israel does), is not
 normal. such a state resembles more nazi germany and south africa than
 western democracies, such as the united states, in which jews are free to
 marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands. my proposal may have
 drawbacks but it is meant to force anybody to anything, just to
 compensate for a certain time mixed couples for the hardships tehy
 endure in a society which disapproves of intermarriage.when the day
 will come and israel will become a truly civil and decmoractic society,
 in which the state is not concerned with the religious or ethnic
 affiliation of its constituency, such a fund would not be needed any
 more. i don't mind if jews wish to marry jews and keep their
 traditions, why not ? but this is not the affairs of a state. western
 democracy clearly separates these domains and i am certain that
 most
 american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state termed
 christian state and to have their green cards stamped with a mark jew.
 
 i would ask those who are genuinely interested in an exchange of views
 and personal experiencces to refrain from emotional, infantile
 outbursts which might leed readers to infer that jews who respect
 judaism are uncivilized. such behaviour is not good for judaism.
 
 elias
 
 