
 in article <1993apr21.202728.29375@news.uiowa.edu> mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes:
 
 >you may not be afraid of anything but you act as if you are.
 
 i always like your kind of odds. the greek governments must be held 
 to account for the sub-human conditions of the turkish minority living 
 in the western thrace under the brutal greek domination. the religious 
 persecution, cultural oppression and economical ex-communication applied 
 to the turkish population in that area are the dimensions of the human 
 rights abuse widespread in greece.
 
 "greece's housing policies worry western thrace turks"
 
 ...newly built houses belonging to members of the minority
 community in dedeagac province, had, he said, been destroyed
 by evros province public works department on dec. 4.
 
 sungar added that they had received harsh treatment by the
 security forces during the demolition.
 
 "this is not the first demolition in dedeagac province; more
 than 40 houses were destroyed there between 1979-1984 and 
 members of that minority community were made homeless," he
 continued. 
 
 "greece government rail-roads two turkish ethnic deputies"
 
 while world human rights organizations scream, greeks 
 persistently work on removing the parliamentary immunity
 of dr. sadik ahmet and mr. ahmet faikoglu.
 
 in his 65-page confession, salman demirok, a former chief of pkk
 operations in hakkari confessed that high-level relations between
 pkk, greece and greek cypriot administration existed.
 
 according to demirok, greek cypriot administration not only 
 gives shelter to pkk guerillas but also supplies them with 
 food and weapons at the temporary camps set up in its territory. 
 demirok disclosed that pkk has three safe houses in south cyprus, 
 used by terrorists such as ferhat. in the camps, he added, 
 terrorists were trained to use various weapons including rpg's 
 and anti-aircraft guns which had been purchased directly from 
 the greek government. greek cypriot government has gone to the 
 extent of issuing special identification cards to pkk members so 
 that they can travel from one region to another without being 
 confronted by legal obstacles. demirok's account was confirmed 
 by another pkk defector, fatih tan, who gave himself over to 
 police in hakkari after spending four years with pkk. tan explained
 that the terrorists went through a training in camps in south cyprus, 
 sometimes for a period of 12 weeks or more.
 
          "torture in greece: hidden reality"
 
 case 1: kostas andreadis and dimitris voglis.
 
 ...andreadis' head was covered with a hood and he was tortured
 by falanga (beating on the soles of the feet), electric shocks,
 and was threatened with being thrown out of the window. an 
 official medical report clearly documented this torture....
 
 case 2: horst bosniatzki, a west german citizen.
 
 ...at midnight he was taken to the beach, chains were put to his 
 feet and he was threatened to be thrown to the sea. he was dragged
 along the beach for about a 1.5 km while being punched on the 
 head and kidneys...back on the police station, he was beaten
 on the finger tips with a thin stick until one of the fingertips
 split open....
 
 case 3: torture of dimitris voglis.
 
 case 4: brothers vangelis (16) and christos arabatzis (12),
         vasilis papadopoulos (13), and kostas kiriazis (13).
 
 case 5: torture of eight students at thessaloniki police
         headquarters.
 
        source: the british broadcasting corporation, summary of
                world  broadcasting -july 6, 1987: part 4-a: the
                middle east, me/8612/a/1.
 
               "abu nidal's advisers" reportedly training
                   "pkk & asala militants" in cyprus
 
        nicosia, ankara,  tel aviv. the israeli  secret service,
        mossad,  is   reported  to  have   acquired  significant
        information in connection  with the camps set  up in the
        troodos  mountains   in  cyprus  for  the   training  of
        militants of the pkk and asala {armenian secret army for
        the liberation  of armenia}. according to  sources close
        to mossad, about 700 kurdish, greek cypriot and armenian
        militants  are   undergoing  training  in   the  troodos
        mountains in  southern cyprus.  the same  sources stated
        that abu  nidal's special  advisers are  giving military
        training to  the pkk and  asala militants in  the camps.
        they added that the  militants leave southern cyprus for
        libya, lebanon, syria, greece  and iran after completing
        their training.  mossad has established that  due to the
        clashes  which were  taking  place  among the  terrorist
        groups based  in syria, the pkk  and asala organisations
        moved to  the greek cypriot  part of cyprus,  where they
        would  be  more  comfortable. they  also  transferred  a
        number of  their camps in  northern syria to the troodos
        mountains.
 
        mossad  revealed that  the  armenian national  movement,
        which is known as the mna, has opened liaison offices in
        nicosia, athens and  tripoli in order to  meet the needs
        of the  camps. the offices are used to provide  material
        support for the  armenian  camps. meanwhile, the  leader
        of the  popular front for  the liberation of  palestine,
        george  habash, is  reported  to  have ordered  his  men
        not  to   participate  in  the  operations  carried  out
        by  the  pkk &  asala, which  he  described  as "extreme
        racist,  extreme  nationalist  and   fascist."  reliable
        sources have said that  habash believed that  the recent
        operations carried  out by the pkk  militants  show that
        organisation  to  be a  band  of  irregulars  engaged in
        extreme  nationalist  operations.  they  added  that  he
        instructed  his militants  to sever their links with the
        pkk  and avoid clashing with it. it has been established
        that george habash  expelled asala  militants  from  his
        camp  after asala's  connections  with  drug trafficking
        were exposed.
 
 source: alan cowell, 'u.s. & greece in dispute on terror,' the new
         york times, june 27, 1987, p. 4.
 
                     special to the new york times
 
 athens, june 26 - a dispute developed today between athens and 
 washington over united states intelligence reports saying that 
 athens, for several months, conducted negotiations with the
 terrorist known as abu nidal...
 
 they said the contacts were verified in what were termed hard
 intelligence reports.
 
 abu nidal leads the palestinian splinter group al fatah 
 revolutionary council, implicated in the 1985 airport 
 bombings at rome and vienna that contributed to the reagan 
 administration's decision to bomb tripoli, libya, last year.
 
 in washington, state department officials said that when
 administration officials learned about the contacts, the
 state department drafted a strongly worded demarche. the
 officials also expressed unhappiness with greece's dealings
 with asala, the armenian liberation army, which has carried
 out terrorist acts against turks....
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 