
 in article <1993apr19.204243.19392@cs.rit.edu>,
 bdm@cs.rit.edu (brendan d mckay) writes:
 >
 >i have previously posted quotations by irgun participants that
 >totally destroys begin's whitewash.  i have no particular desire
 >to post it yet again.
 >
 >brendan.
 >(normally bdm@cs.anu.edu.au)
 
 
 you apparently think you are some sort of one-man judge and jury who
 can declare "total" victory and then sit back and enjoy the
 applause.  but you've picked the wrong topic if you think a few
 rigged "quotations" can sustain the legend and lie of the deir
 yassin "massacre."
 
 you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical methodology.
 at the most basic level, you should know that there is a big
 difference between weighing evidence fairly and merely finding
 "quotations" that support your preset opinions.
 
 if you have studied the history of israel at all you must know that
 many of the sources of your "quotations" have an axe to grind, and
 therefore you must be very careful about whom you "quote."  for
 example, meir pa'il, whom you cite, was indeed a general, a scholar,
 and a war hero.  but that doesn't mean everything that comes out of
 his mouth is gold.  in fact (and here your lack of experience
 shows), pa'il is such a fanatic, embittered leftist that much of his
 anti-israel blathering (forget about anti-irgun blathering) would be
 considered something like treason in non-israel contexts.  but of
 course you don't consider this at all when you find a juicy
 "quotation" that you can use to attack israel.
 
 benny morris (of hashomer hatzair) represents himself as a "scholar"
 when he rehashes the old attacks on the irgun.  don't be fooled.
 it's just the old zionist ideological catfight, surfacing as an
 attack on the (then-) likud government.  if you will look closely at
 the section on deir yassin in his book on the war of independence,
 you will see his "indictment" to be pure hot air.  and this is the
 best he can do after decades of digging for any sort of damning
 evidence.  unfortunately for him, because his book parades itself as
 "scholarly," he is forced to put footnotes.  so you can clearly see
 that his deir yassin account is based on nothing.
 
 the deir yassin "massacre" never took place as the propagandists
 tell it, any more than the sabra and shatila "massacres." do you get
 the feeling people like to blame the jews for "massacres," even if
 they have to make them up?  it must sound spicy.  even some jews
 like to do it, for reasons of their own.
 
 please, don't confuse any of you deir yassin "massacre" stuff
 with facts or scholarship.  you should stick to begin's version
 unless you find something serious to contradict it.
 
 vic
 