
 in article <93106.082650finaid5@auvm.american.edu> <finaid5@auvm.american.edu> writes:
 >message-id: <1993apr15.174657.6176@news.uiowa.edu> mr.napoleon responds:
 >
 >** there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor
 >**until 1923 someone had to protect them. if not us who??
 >
 >
 >is that so? or you were taking advantage of weakness of ottoman
 >empire to grab some land. as soon as you got green lights from
 >allied forces, you occupied izmir and other cities in western
 >turkey. you killed and  raped millions people without any reason.
 >of course, you paid the price. mustafa kemal ataturk made
 >you swim in aegean sea but not far enough. your aggressions thru
 >turkey at anytime in the past did not get you any reward and shall
 >not get you anywhere.
 
 
 don't swallow propaganda as truth sir. british promised to venizelos
 (greek pm) that mainly greek populated areas of the ottomans will be
 given to greece, _if_ he will agree to drag greece in the side of
 the british during the wwi (because the greek king was progerman).
 the british succeeded by bombarding athens (1916), killing quite a few,
 forcing abdication of the king, division of greece into two separate
 states (north-south), and finally laying the ground for the most disasterous
 division between greeks for our century.(so don't feel bitter that the
 "allies" gave any green light because they liked us....)
 
 anyway, the british succeed to establish venizelos, war starts at a second
 front against the germans in the south while they were fighting the war
 in the east against the russians, and finally the wwii came in an end.
 after that the british (and french) forgot immediately their promises
 (as usually). even though publicly they say that they support the greek
 cause, practically they not only do nothing, but instead, using some usual
 "reasoning" and other crap rhetoric as a pretext, they gradually
 backup kemal (who had given now to the british "water and bread" that
 he will dissolve the superethnic ottoman and contract it into a small
 ethnic-state). the main drive behind this british switch was the plan
 to keep a muslim state in the region as buffer against a russian expansion
 into warm-water facilities. the "greek empire" being an orthodox christian
 state was too prone to become russian client.
 
 out of this intrigue, the current state of affairs was established on our
 lands. while venizelos and kemal were promoted as true "giants" by the
 british, since they worked to realize their goals in the region.
 under the same plan, currently greece and turkey are recipients of big
 military funds from the us; both they are functioning as anti-russian
 buffers, while simultaneously both remain good clients of state dept. because
 otherwise the use of terror of changing "the balance of power in the aegean"
 will be used.
 
 under the same exact rational you should see the cyprus problem.
 
 gr
 
 ps: i don't make any anti-...whatever rhetoric. this is the situation
     in our region and needs to be said. the previously mentioned powers
     are not anything special; they are fucntioning the same way which
     anyone else functions all throughout history. so i don't selectively
     single them out; just they are relevant to _our_ current afairs.
 