
 			yarn of cargo of human bones [1]
 	
 		copyright, 1924, by the new york times company
 			special cable to the new york times
 
    paris, dec 22, -- marseilles is excited by a weird story of the arrival in
 that port of a ship flying the british flag and named zan carrying a
 mysterious cargo of 400 tons of human bones consigned to manufacturers there.
 the bones are said to have been loaded at mudania on the sea of marmora and
 to be the remains of the victims of massacres in asia minor. in view of the
 rumors circulating it is expected that an inquiry will be instigated.
 
 			- - - reference - - -
 
 [1] _new york times_, december 23, 1924, page 3, column 2 (bottom)
 
 			- - - - - - - - - - - -
 
 on the 78th commemorative anniversary of the turkish genocide of the armenians,
 we remember those whose only crime was to be armenian in the shadow of an 
 emerging turkish proto-fascist state. in their names we demand justice.
 
 in april 1915, the turkish government began a systematically executed 
 de-population of the eastern anatolian homeland of the armenians through a 
 genocidal extermination. this genocide was to insure that turks exclusively
 ruled over the geographic area today called the republic of turkey. the 
 result: 1.5 million murdered, 30 billion dollars of armenian property stolen
 and plundered. this genocide ended nearly 3,000 years of armenian civilization
 on those lands. today, the turkish government continues to scrape clean any
 vestige of a prior armenian existence on those lands. today's turkish
 governmental policy is to re-write the history of the era, to manufacture
 distortion and generate excuses for their genocide of the armenian people. in 
 the face of refutation ad nauseam, the turkish historical society and cronies 
 shamelessly continue to deny that any such genocide occurred. this policy 
 merely demonstrates that in the modern era, genocide is an effective state 
 policy when it remains un-redressed and un-punished. a crime unpunished is a 
 crime encouraged. adolf hitler took this cue less than 25 years after the 
 successful genocide of the armenians.
 
 turkey claims there was no systematic deportation of armenians, yet...
 armenians were removed from every city, town, and village in the whole of 
 turkey! armenians who resisted deportation and massacre are referred to as 
 "rebels".
 
 turkey claims there was no genocide of the armenians, yet...turkish population
 figures today show zero armenians in eastern turkey, the armenian homeland.
 
 turkey claims armenians were always a small minority, yet...turkey claims 
 armenians were a "threat".
 
 in a final insult to the victims, the republic of turkey sold the bones of 
 approximately 100,000 murdered armenians for profit to europe.
 
 today, the turkish government is enjoying the fruits of that genocide. the
 success of this genocide is hangs over the heads of turkey's kurdish
 population.
 
 the armenians demand recognition, reparation, return of armenian land and
 property lost as a result of this genocide.
 
 armenians demand justice                              ermeniler adalet istiyor
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "armenia has not learned a lesson in
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  anatolia and has forgotten the 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  punishment inflicted on it."  4/14/93
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |   -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
 