
 04/16/93 1045  armenia says it could shoot down turkish planes
 
 by david ljunggren
 
 moscow, april 16, reuter - armenia accused turkey on friday of flying weapons
 x and troops across armenian airspace to azerbaijan and strongly hinted it
 might try to shoot the planes down, local journalists in yerevan said.
 
 separately, itar-tass news agency said armenian forces had halted their latest
 offensive which has swallowed up one-tenth of azerbaijan and sent tensions in
 the transcaucasian region soaring.
 
 the journalists in the armenian capital quoted armen duliyan, head of the
 armenian defence ministry press centre, as saying ankara had been sending 
 planes up to 15 times a day to azerbaijan with arms and troops.
 
 it looks as though the armenian leadership will have to warn turkey about
 the impermissibility of such actions," the journalists quoted duliyan as 
 saying.
 
 "if such steps are pursued in the future we will have recourse to appropriate
 measures. we have all the necessary means, including modern anti-aircraft
 units."
 
 turkey, which shares a border with armenia, has supported azerbaijan in the
 conflict over the mainly armenian-populated nagorno-karabakh region in which
 more than 2,500 people have been killed since fighting erupted in 1988.
 
 the turkish foreign ministry said on friday it had so far sent one plane to
 azerbaijan containing humanitarian aid.
 
 a turkish foreign ministry spokesman on thursday would not comment directly
 on a report by hurriyet newspaper that a first consignment of rockets, rocket
 launchers, ammunition and light weapons had arrived in azerbaijan from turkey.
 
 duliyan said turkey had been sending up to 30 trucks a day carrying troops
 and arms to the bordering azeri autonomous territory of nakhichevan, from where
 they were flown across armenian airspace to the azeri capital baku.
 
 "all the responsibility for possible consequences will be borne by the
 country which is affording military assistance over our airspace," he said.
 
 armenia denies any formal role in the conflict, saying that the troops 
 involved in the fighting are from the enclave itself.
 
 tass said the karabakh forces decided on friday to suspend their offensive
 along the entire armenian-azerbaijani front.
 
 "the karabakh authorities are reportedly ready to give independent
 inspectors a chance to see for themselves on the spot that the (enclave's)
 leadership is striving to achieve a ceasefire," the agency said.
 
 armenian president levon ter-petrosyan called for a two-stage ceasefire in
 karabakh when he arrived in the belarus capital minsk on friday for a summit of
 commonwealth leaders.
 
 "the first stage of the settlement should involve a ceasefire and securing the
 protection of the karabakh population," tass quoted him as saying.
      
 at least 10 ceasefires have been brokered in the conflict but all have
 collapsed.
 
 "the second stage should involve discussing and finding a solution to the
 legal issues: that is, a clarification of the status of nagorno-karabakh," he
 said. the republic declared full independence last year but the move has not 
 been recognised by any other country.
 
 armenia insists that a separate karabakh delegation should take part in future
 peace talks, something azerbaijan rejects.
 
 local news agencies in baku said on friday that interior minister iskender
 gamidov, a fiery nationalist and hardliner in the territorial dispute with
 armenia, had resigned.
 
 turan news agency said he quit on thursday and had cleared his office.
 khabar-servis agency said he would be replaced by the military commandant of
 baku, police major-general abdullah allakhverdiyev. there was no official
 confirmation.
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 