
 in article <c5syr3.g03@newsflash.concordia.ca> ilyess@ece.concordia.ca (ilyess bdira) writes:
 >in article <christopheru3ak245pe@clarinet.com> clarinews@clarinet.com (sid balman jr.) writes:
 > 	washington (upi) -- secretary of state warren christopher said tuesday
 > there are better ideas to stop the human slaughter in the balkans than
 > ordering american fighters to bomb the serbs, but a frustrated senator
 > told him to do just that.
 
   oh great.
 
   today's headlines tell us that the croatians and bosnians are fighting
   each other throughout central bosnia, in battles that the un describes
   as "out of control" and atrocities being reported from both sides.
   these people are crazy.
 
   right now the serbians are number one in violations of human rights
   and general carnage but crazed violence in the balkans is like the
   car-rental business - if you're number two you just try harder.
 
   the region doesn't need military aid; it needs psychiatric help!
   we should bomb them with thorazine and then air-drop several 
   regiments of psychotherapists.
 
   there is no justification for us military involvement because there
   is no reasonable, definable goal we can achieve militarily.  sure,
   if send in several divisions of mechanized infantry we can probably
   stop the more egregious fighting; but only as long as we are willing
   to stay in there and play policeman and get shot at.  the minute we 
   leave or turn our backs they'll be at each other's throats again.
                                 
   btw, with bosnia's large moslem population, why have nations like 
   turkey, saudi arabia, syria, egypt, and others with either money 
   or strong military forces not spoken out more forcibly or offered 
   to help out bosnia?   the turkish ambassador has ocassionally said
   a thing or two, but that's all; i see no great enthusism from any 
   of those places to get *their* hands dirty.    why does the us always
   get stuck with this stuff?
 
   besides, there's no case that can be made for us military involvement
   there that doesn't apply equally well to, say, liberia, angola, or
   (it appears with the khmer rouge's new campaign) cambodia.   non-whites
   don't count?
 
 
 ---peter
 
 
 
 