
 in article <1483500351@igc.apc.org> center for policy research <cpr@igc.apc.org> writes:
 
 >ps: my proposal has nothing to do with nazi eugenics. it has to do with
 >the search for peace which would enable justice. i don't consider that
 >justice is done, when non-jews who fled or were expelled in 1948/1967
 >are not permitted to return to their homeland. 
 
 how about jews who were expelled from their homelands in iraq, syria,
 jordan, algeria, etc.?  don't they deserve justice, too?
 
 >this can at best be called
 >pragmatism, a nice word for legitimizing the rule of the strong. it can
 >never be called justice. 
 
 why is your criticism always directed against israel, but never
 against the arab states, even when they are so much more guilty of the
 accusations you make?  is it because you now call yourself a
 palestinean? 
 
 >and peace without justice will never be peace.
 
 this is why the "land-for-peace" formula is so foolish.  land-for-land
 or peace-for-peace seems much more just, except that it would cost the
 arabs something and so is not under consideration.  
 
 let's not forget that about half of israel's population are refugees
 from arab countries.  somehow, their land now being occupied by arab
 states and their homes now being lived-in by arab people are not
 included in any negotiations.  is this your prescription for peace? 
 
 >it is my conviction that the situation in which a state, through the
 >law, attempts to discourage mixed marriages (as israel does), is not
 >normal. such a state resembles more nazi germany and south africa than
 >western democracies, such as the united states, in which jews are free to
 >marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands. 
 
 again, you've somehow managed to overlook the fact that the arab
 states are much more restrictive on these points.  in fact, the
 officially judenrein policies of almost all of the arab states makes
 them resemble nazi germany chillingly closely.
 
 >american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state termed
 >christian state and to have their green cards stamped with a mark jew.
 
 there are many states in which christians can live happily, many which
 have official religions and christian majorities and christian-based
 laws.  there are some 2 dozen arab and islamic states.  there is only
 1 (one) jewish state.  do you have a problem with this?  is this one
 jewish state too many?  there are others who might agree with you, you
 know. 
 
 >i would ask those who are genuinely interested in an exchange of views
 >and personal experiencces to refrain from emotional, infantile
 >outbursts which might leed readers to infer that jews who respect
 >judaism are uncivilized. such behaviour is not good for judaism.
 
 have you just arrived on tpm recently???  again, the supporters of the
 arab and islamic camps are frequently and massively guilty of
 "emotional, infantile outbursts" which have weakened their positions
 dramatically.  somehow, your criticisms are very one-sided and
 simple-minded. 
 
 p.s. how's the fund coming along?
 
 -- 
 jake livni  jake@bony1.bony.com           ten years from now, george bush will
 american-occupied new york                   have replaced jimmy carter as the
 my opinions only - employer has no opinions.    standard of a failed president.
 