
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: from israeli press. torture.
 
 /* written  4:41 pm  apr 16, 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc:mideast.forum */
 /* ---------- "from israeli press. torture." ---------- */
 from the israeli press.
 
 newspaper: ma'ariv date: 18. december 1992 author: avi raz
 
 subject: torture
 
 title of article: moderate physical pressure
 
 several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation
 room in tulkarm prison, during which he says he was humiliated,
 beaten and tortured, omar daoud jaber heard his interrogator, a
 shabak agent 'captain louis', chatting on the phone with his wife.
 "at those moments", omar said, "i felt that he was like a
 humanbeing, but right after he finished talking, he would be beat
 me and say, 'you listened to the conversation and enjoyed
 yourself' and i understood that he was not really a human being".
 
 in late october 1992, after 38 days in detention at tulkarm
 prison, omar jaber was released without charges. "among the jews,
 as among the arabs, there are good people and bad people", he said
 after his release, "but there, in tulkarm, in the interrogations
 rooms, you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that
 he is a human being". although he left the detention installation
 in tulkarm bruised and humiliated ("i sat at home for ten days. my
 hands shook from nerves"), one may consider omar jaber lucky: he
 got out, not so healthy, but entire, and even ultimately returned
 to normal functioning, at the small solar heater plant he owns.
 
 in contrast, hassan bader al-zbeidi, for example, was released
 seven weeks ago from detention in tulkarm after 33 days in the
 shabak wing, cut off from his surroundings. he doesn't speak or
 react. mustafa barakat, aged only 23, who was arrested in early
 august and was brought to the tulkarm detention installation, left
 it one day later - dead. "we have recently received an especially
 large number of testimonies concerning cruel tortures employed at
 the tulkarm detention installation by shabak interrogators", noted
 dr. niv gordon, director of the association of israel and
 palestinian physicians for human rights. (...)
 
 the right to complain against the shabak does not excite anan
 saber makhlouf, a 20 year old student. in fact, he was extremely
 fearful about describing the manner in which he was interrogated
 in tulkarm prison, in case the publication in the paper would
 return him to detention and lead to renewed mistreatment.
 
 (...follow description of tortures....)
 
 omar, a tall bearded man, was silent. "i do not want to talk about
 it", he finally said, quietly. some time later, embarrased and
 ashamed, he spoke: "sometimes he beats you and beats you until
 you'll kiss his hand, and not only his hand. even the hands of
 another interrogator, and another, whom he calls into the room,
 and the last interrogator says:" now you are kissing my hand, and
 later if i want, you will kiss my ass."
 
 these things take place in an israeli army detention installation,
 located within the military government compound in tulkarm (west
 bank). but the shabak interrogation wing is a separate kingdom. in
 early march the idf allowed representatives of b'tselem, the
 israeli information center for human rights in the territories, to
 visit tulkarm prison, but denied them access to the interrogation
 wing. "the interrogation wing is shabak property, being solely
 under shabak responsibility. all interrogations are performed by
 it", said lieutnant sharon sho'an, the commander of the
 installation, according to the internal report written by b'tselem
 member, yuval ginbar, following the visit. major david pe'er,
 governing commander of the prison system in the central command,
 was quoted in the report:  "there is an ethical problem here - no
 one can enter the interrogation wing".
 
 transl. by i. shahak
 
 