
 
                      the hamas way of death
  
      (following is a transcript of a recruitment and training
 videotape made last summer by the qassam battalions, the military
 arm of hamas, an islamic palestinian group. hamas figures
 significantly in the middle east equation. in december, israel
 deported more than 400 palestinians to lebanon in response to
 hamas's kidnapping and execution of an israeli soldier. a longer
 version appears in the may issue of harper's magazine, which
 obtained and translated the tape.)
  
      my name is yasir hammad al-hassan ali. i live in nuseirat [a
 refugee camp in the gaza strip]. i was born in 1964. i finished
 high school, then attended gaza polytechnic. later, i went to work
 for islamic university in gaza as a clerk. i'm married and i have
 two daughters.
      the qassam battalions are the only group in palestine
 explicitly dedicated to jihad [holy war]. our primary concern is
 palestinians who collaborate with the enemy. many young men and
 women have fallen prey to the cunning traps laid by the [israeli]
 security services.
      since our enemies are trying to obliterate our nation,
 cooperation with them is clearly a terrible crime. our most
 important objective must be to put an end to the plague of
 collaboration. to do so, we abduct collaborators, intimidate and
 interrogate them in order to uncover other collaborators and expose
 the methods that the enemy uses to lure palestinians into
 collaboration in the first place. in addition to that, naturally,
 we confront the problem of collaborators by executing them.
      we don't execute every collaborator. after all, about 70
 percent of them are innocent victims, tricked or black-mailed into
 their misdeeds. the decision whether to execute a collaborator is
 based on the seriousness of his crimes. if, like many
 collaborators, he has been recruited as an agent of the israeli
 border guard then it is imperative that he be executed at once.
 he's as dangerous as an israeli soldier, so we treat him like an
 israeli soldier.
      there's another group of collaborators who perform an even
 more loathsome role -- the ones who help the enemy trap young men
 and women in blackmail schemes that force them to become
 collaborators. i regard the "isqat" [the process by which a
 palestinians is blackmailed into collaboration] of single person as
 greater crime than the killing of a demonstrator. if someone is
 guilty of causing repeated cases of isqat, than it is our religious
 duty to execute him.
      a third group of collaborators is responsible for the
 distribution of narcotics. they work on direct orders from the
 security services to distribute drugs as widely as possible. their
 victims become addicted and soon find it unbearable to quit and
 impossible to afford more. they collaborate in order to get the
 drugs they crave. the dealers must also be executed.
      in the battalions, we have developed a very careful method of
 uncovering collaborators, we can't afford to abduct an innocent
 person, because once we seize a person his reputation is tarnished
 forever. we will abduct and interrogate a collaborator only after
 evidence of his guilt has been established -- never before. if
 after interrogation the collaborator is found guilty beyond any
 doubt, then he is executed.
      in many cases, we don't have to make our evidence against
 collaborators public, because everyone knows that they're guilty.
 but when the public isn't aware that a certain individual is a
 collaborator, and we accuse him, people are bound to ask for
 evidence. many people will proclaim his innocence, so there must be
 irrefutable proof before he is executed. this proof is usually
 obtained in the form of a confession.
      at first, every collaborator denies his crimes. so we start
 off by showing the collaborator the testimony against him. we tell
 him that he still has a chance to serve his people, even in the
 last moment of his life, by confessing and giving us the
 information we need.
      we say that we know his repentance in sincere and that he has
 been a victim. that kind of talk is convincing. most of them
 confess after that. others hold out; in those cases, we apply
 pressure, both psychological and physical. then the holdouts
 confess as well.
      only one collaborator has ever been executed without an
 interrogation. in that case, the collaborator had been seen working
 for the border guard since before the intifada, and he himself
 confessed his involvement to a friend, who disclosed the
 information to us. in addition, three members of his network of
 collaborators told us that he had caused their isqat. with this
 much evidence, there was no need to interrogate him. but we are
 very careful to avoid wrongful executions. in every case, our
 principal is the same: the accused should be interrogated until he
 himself confesses his crimes. 
      a few weeks ago, we sat down and complied a list of
 collaborators to decide whether there were any who could be
 executed without interrogation. an although we had hundreds of
 names, still, because of our fear of god and of hell, we could not
 mark any of these men, except for the one i just mentioned, for
 execution.
      when we execute a collaborator in public, we use a gun. but
 after we abduct and interrogate a collaborator, we can't shoot him
 -- to do so might give away our locations. that's why collaborators
 are strangled. sometimes we ask the collaborator, "what do you
 think? how should we execute you?" one collaborator told us,
 "strangle me." he hated the sight of blood.
 
 -----
 naftaly stramer 			 | intergraph electronics
 internet: nstramer@dazixco.ingr.com      | 6101 lookout road, suite a    
 voice: (303)581-2370  fax: (303)581-9972 | boulder, co 80301
 "quality is everybody's job, and it's everybody's job to watch all that they can."
 