
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: from israeli press: nazi methods.
 
 /* written  4:38 pm  apr 16, 1993 by cpr@igc.apc.org in igc:mideast.forum */
 /* ---------- "from israeli press: nazi methods." ---------- */
 from the israeli press
 
 newspaper: ha'aretz date: 14 february1993 author: gideon levi
 
 subject: nazi methods in gaza
 
 title: in the neighborhood of hope, among the rubble
 
 (excerpts)
 
 mahmoud jowara'r stared at me long and sadly: "i worked my entire
 life in order to built that house and this is what is left". only
 tv could transmit the full sadness of his face. "you say that we
 teach our children to hate you, but what do you expect to happen
 to a child who sees this ?" and once again he wraps himself in a
 lengthy silence, his face crumbling into weeping. mahmoud stood in
 the field of rubble that was once his home. the term
 'dispossession' has an absolute meaning here. nothing is left of
 what he accumulated during his entire life, only the rubble of a
 house and shreds of belongings.
 
 once again khan yunis. once again demolished homes. last thursday
 there was a search for wanted people here. once again the idf
 forces employed the new method, fired and bombed and shot missiles
 and placed explosives. already three times during the past weeks i
 have gone out to see the destruction and each time i was more
 horrifying scenes. this time they hit the largest number of
 houses, 17 according to the idf estimate, ten of them completely
 demolished. but not only that:  the method has also become more
 brutal. three weeks ago, in tufah neighborhood in gaza, the
 residents were still told to remove their valuables from their
 homes.  this time the army skipped that part; three weeks ago the
 handcuffed men, inhabitants of the demolished homes, were supplied
 with some water and one apple during the 12 hours they had to
 stand. this time there was only water. three weeks ago they were
 even allowed to go out to the toilet. this time the soldier just
 gold them: piss and shit in your pants. and thus, last thursday,
 some 45 men stood for about 12 hours, their hands bound behind
 their backs, their eyes blindfolded, without food, with wet pants
 on their legs and a terrible feeling of humiliation in their
 hearts, listening to the sounds of the explosions destroying their
 homes, one after the other.
 
 (...)
 
 dr. juma'a fuad said al-rubi. the brother from saudi arabia,
 emerges from among the ruins. ten days ago he arrived for a family
 visit, mainly in order to celebrate the housewarming with his
 father and brothers. on thursday he was handcuffed like everyone
 else for 12 hours, and later went with everyone to view the
 destrucion. he tried to explain that he was a visitor and that he
 is a physician, but only got a shove.  like all the rest he also
 urinated in his pants, while standing with his hands bound and his
 eyes blindfolded for the entire day. juma'a al-rubi studied
 medicine at cairo university, and for ten years he has been
 treating wealthy saudis in medina. his wife and four children
 remained there. now his documents have been lost and he does not
 know how he will return to them. "there is no humanity", stated
 the physician from saudi arabia.
 
 