
  
 the armenians were deeply anti-semitic as well. in the may 10, 1936 
 edition of 'hairenik weekly' the vice-mayor of bucharest, rumania is 
 quoted as saying:
 
 "the armenians helped us not to become the slaves of the jewish
  elements in our country."
 
 in another edition, an author named captain george haig writes:
 
 "and the type of jew who is imported to palestine...is not anything
  to be proud about. their loose morals, and other vices were
  unknown to the arabs prior to balfour declaration, on top of 
  all communist activities were the cause of most of the arab
  criticism."[1]
 
 as uzun exposed, the armenians were fascist. before pearl harbor, 
 the dashnak daily 'hairenik' (not to be confused with the tzeghagrons
 'hairenik weekly') expressed pro-nazi sentiments:
 
 "and came adolf hitler, after herculean struggles. he spoke
  to the racial heart strings of the german, opened the 
  fountain of his national genius, strock down the spirit
  of defeatism...at no period since the world war had berlin
  conducted so realistic, well organized, and planned policy
  as now, since hitler's assumption to power...and whatever
  others may think concerning hitlerism and fascism as a 
  system of government, it is proved that they have revitalized
  and regenerated the two states, germany and italy."[2]
 
 [1] captain george haig, 'the case of palestine,' in hairenik
     weekly, friday, september 25, 1936.
 [2] 'hairenik,' official organ of the dashnaktsuitune, sept. 
     17, 1936; quoted in john roy carlson, 'the armenian displaced
     persons' (see endnote 1), p. 21.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 