
 
  
 
 center for policy research writes...
 
 
 >subject: final solution for gaza ?
 >
 >
 >final solution for the gaza ghetto ?
 >------------------------------------
 >
 >while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto, they
 >repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
 >attempt to starve the gazans.
 
     your comparison with the warsaw ghetto uprising is insulting,
     and racist beyond belief.  the attempts to quiet any violence
     in the gaza strip are just that.  the efforts to quell murder
     and mayhem in the gaza strip were the resluts of violence and
     came after the violence.  it was not an arbitrary racial move
     like the nazi treatment of jews.  jews had not committed acts
     of violence and murder as have the residents of gaza.  i find 
     your eagerness to ignore the acts of murder nothing more than
     anti-israel bigotry.
 
 
 >the gaza strip, this tiny area of land with the highest population
 >density in the world, has been cut off from the world for weeks.
 >the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
 >gaza, some 700.000 people, by denying them the right to leave the
 >strip and seek work in israel.
 
     it is not punishment, but protection from repeated attacks by
     residents of gaza.  you self-servingly omit any references to
     why israel has had to take action.  apparaently the deaths of
     innocent israeli civilians do not enter into your equation, a
     racist ommission on your part.
 
 
 >while polish non-jews risked their lives to save jews from the
 >ghetto, no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
 >the gazan resistance. the only help given to gazans by israeli
 >jews, only dozens of people, is humanitarian assistance.
 >
 >the right of the gazan population to resist occupation is
 >recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of
 >justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to
 >rise up against its tormentors.
 
     the right of israel to protect its citizens from murderers is
     also recognized by international law.  israeli civilians have
     been getting stabbed to death on a daily basis.  if this wave
     of murder does not matter to you, then your posturing for the
     basic human rights you claim matter so much to you is nothing
     but an anti-israel charade.
 
 
 >as is known, the israeli regime is considering gazans unworthy of
 >israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel, although they are
 >considered worthy to do the dirty work in israeli hotels, shops
 >and fields. 
 
     do you know of residents of gaza who have applied for israeli
     citizenship and were denied?  i have heard of no such denials
     taking place.  can you document this, or is this more of your
     stupid and innacurate propaganda?  the truth is that if gazan
     residents applied for citizenship, hamas would murder them as
     collaborators.
 
 
 	     many gazans are born in towns and villages located in
 >israel. they may not live there, for these areas are reserved for
 >the master race.
 
     how dare you use such a disgusting phrase.  how very easy you
     attack a people, when you omit facts which fly in the face of
     your pure racism.  perhaps you are judging a people to be the
     racists that you are.  do you believe that all jews must have   
     the same bigoted makeup as you?  
     
     here's another little fly in your ointment, about the 'master 
     race,' for you to avoid...
 
     two months ago a plane with 86 bosnian muslims left bosnia to
     seek asylum in the middle east.  four arab nations refused to
     grant them asylum.  then when israli arabs agreed to take the
     responsibility for them, they were allowed into israel.  yes,
     israel.  but when the plane landed, the israeli arabs who had
     previously agreed to take care of them refused to be involved
     with the rescue project, because they felt that it would make
     israel look good.  it was more important to avoid any good pr
     for israel than to take care of fellow muslims.  israel moved
     them to a kibbutz, where they are safe and secure.  the truth
     is that time after time the islamic world has turned its back
     on muslims in need more than israel has.  even in the case of
     the 400 deportees, lebanon was willing to let their so-called
     arab brothers freeze to death rather than give them sanctuary
     in lebanon.  
 
     nearly twice as many palestinians have been murdered by other
     palestinians than in confrontations with israel.  hundreds of
     thousands of palestinians had been deported from kuwait, just
     because they were palestinian.  the truth is that your phoney
     concern for the welfare of the palestinians is nothing but an
     excuse to attack israel.  you are part of the ignorant effort
     to confine all concern for the welfare of the palestinians to
     attacking israel.  but the truth is there are greater reasons
     than israel for the plight of the palestinians.  to disregard
     jordan or kuwait or saudi arabia or any of the other oil-rich 
     nations who do nothing for these people, is to use the plight 
     of these poor people as a vehicle for your hatred of jews, or
     your hatred of israel.  anti-semitism and anti-zionism is not
     the same as pro-palestinian and anyone who insists that it is
     the same really does not give two hoots for their welfare.
 
 
 >the nazi regime accorded to the residents of the warsaw ghetto the
 >right to self- administration.  they selected jews to pacify the
 >occupied population and preventing any form of resistance. some
 >jewish collaborators were killed. israel also wishes to rule over
 >gaza through arab collaborators.
 
     your pathetic analogy is so absent of relevant fact that your
     racism cannot be disguised.  jews had never declared war on a
     polish people.  jews had never attacked poles with knives, or
     had used the ghetto as a staging ground for attacks.  to take
     something like the warsaw ghetto(the creation of which you do
     not even bother to discuss!)and the uprising that followed is
     to degrade the dead, and to show that intelligent debate on a 
     difficult situation is beyond your intellectual purview.  you
     clearly have never even read a single word of the covenant of 
     the islamic resistance movement.  here is arguably the single
     most anti-semitic genocidal document since mein kampf, yet it
     is totally disregarded in your rantings.  your racism is most
     evident in your eagerness to avoid such documentation.  if it
     were considered, you might actually have to deal with mideast
     problems in a balanced manner, rather than in an anti-semitic
     manner.
 
 
 >as israel denies gazans the only two options which are compatible
 >with basic human rights and international law, that of becoming
 >israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for
 >self-determination, it must be concluded that the israeli jewish
 >society does not consider gazans full human beings. 
 
     and just how was gaza obtained?  do you forget that israel is
     not in the habit of grabbing land for the hell of it, but had
     taken gaza in a war that it did not start?  did you know land
     israel captures in wars, wars which other nations have always
     started, aren't the same as israel, and they are subject to a 
     completely different set of international laws?  since you do
     continuously refer to international law, would you please say
     what specific international laws israel is violating?  
     
 
 						   this attitude
 >is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews. 
 
     i can cite 6,000,000 reasons why it is not.
 
 
 >                                                             the
 >current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are
 >consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime mininister
 >yitzhak rabin that 'gaza sink into the sea'. 
 
     where is this quote?  i have never heard rabin assert that he
     wished such a thing.  since you are in general a liar, you'll
     have to provide the entire quote, with source, or this effort
     will be regarded as just another one of your fabrications.
 
 
 >                                           one is led to ask
 >oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more sinister
 >goals towards the gazans ? whether they have some final solution
 >up their sleeve ?
 
     only you are led to ask such a loaded, racist, intellectually
     dishonest question.  you inability to come to terms with what
     you are has turned you into a racist of the highest order.
 
 
 >i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever
 >they can to help the gazans regain their full human, civil and
 >political rights, to which they are entitled as human beings.
 
     why do you not feel the same compassion for the jews of iran,
     or iraq, or yemen, or saudi arabia, or syria?  do you have an
     inkling of what they have endured over the past decades?  or,
     what about the plight of the palestinians in kuwait?  or what
     about the treatment of the bosnian muslims?  do you think the
     residents of gaza are being subjected to what all the muslims 
     in bosnia are enduring?  why are you indifferent to the death
     and suffering of people?  why do you not care that these folk
     are being exterminated?  why do you not care that only israel
     has given any of these people safe haven?  could it be due to 
     the fact that it is not israel who is doing the killing?  the
     people in gaza are not being exterminated.  they aren't being
     killed.  they aren't being raped.  they aren't being starved.
     they aren't being driven from their lands.  they are not kept
     from receiving food or other supplies.  but the bosnians are.
     and the only country which has provided some sanctuary to the
     bosnian muslims is the same nation that you have devoted your 
     life to attacking, in the guise of compassion.    
 
     your rantings are so unfettered by the burden of intellectual
     honesty that you ought to take a deep breath and ask yourself
     what your real motives are.  do not flatter yourself into the
     belief that truth or compassion are what drives you.  in your
     case, it is clear that hate beats out love every time.  maybe
     you are burdened with some kind of guilt for having been born
     a jew.  it is obvious that your hatred of your own judaism is
     being dumped on all other jews.  why else would you suggest a
     racist idea like breeding jews out of existence?  maybe these
     fits of anti-semitism are a result of being cut off from your 
     own people for an extended period.  whatever the case may be, 
     it is clear that you are not what you have labored so hard to 
     appear to be.  when you realize that you can't care for other 
     people while you hate yourself you might actually begin to do 
     some good.
  
     but for now, you are a fruad.
 
 
  
 