
 in article <1993apr16.142935.535@cs.yale.edu> karage@scus1.ctstateu.edu (angelos karageorgiou) writes:
 
 >	if turks in greece were so badly mistreated how come they
 >elected two,m not one but two, representatives in the greek government?
 
 pardon me?
 
 "greece government rail-roads two turkish ethnic deputies"
 
 while world human rights organizations scream, greeks 
 persistently work on removing the parliamentary immunity
 of dr. sadik ahmet and mr. ahmet faikoglu.
 
 
 dr. sadik ahmet, turkish ethnic member of greek parliament, visits us
 
 washington dc, july 7- doctor sadik ahmet, one of the two ethnic
 turkish members of the greek parliament visited us on june 24 through
 july 5th and held meetings with human rights organizations and
 high-level us officials in washington dc and new york.
 
 at his press conference at the national press club in washington dc,
 sadik ahmet explained the plight of ethnic turks in greece and stated
 six demands from greek government.
 
 ahmet said "our only hope in greece is the pressure generated from
 western capitals for insisting that greece respects the human rights.
 what we are having done to ethnic turks in greece is exactly the same
 as south african apartheid." he added: "what we are facing is pure
 greek hatred and racial discrimination."
 
 spelling out the demands of the turkish ethnic community in greece
 he said "we want the restoration of greek citizenship of 544 ethnic
 turks. their citizenship was revoked by using the excuse that this
 people have stayed out of greece for too long. they are greek citizens
 and are residing in greece, even one of them is actively serving in
 the greek army. besides, other non-turkish citizens of greece are
 not subject to this kind of interpretation at an extent that many of
 greek-americans have greek citizenship and they permanently live in
 the united states."
 
 "we want guarantee for turkish minority's equal rights. we want greek
 government to accept the turkish minority and grant us our civil rights.
 our people are waiting since 25 years to get driving licenses. the greek
 government is not granting building permits to turks for renovating
 our buildings or building new ones. if your name is turkish, you are
 not hired to the government offices."
 
 "furthermore, we want greek government to give us equal opportunity
 in business. they do not grant licenses so we can participate in the
 economic life of greece. in my case, they denied me a medical license
 necessary for practicing surgery in greek hospitals despite the fact
 that i have finished a greek medical school and followed all the
 necessary steps in my career."
 
 "we want freedom of expression for ethnic turks. we are not allowed
 to call ourselves turks. i myself have been subject of a number of
 law suits and even have been imprisoned just because i called myself
 a turk."
 
 "we also want greek government to provide freedom of religion."
 
 in separate interview with the turkish times, dr. sadik ahmet stated
 that the conditions of ethnic turks are deplorable and in the eyes of
 greek laws, ethnic greeks are more equal than ethnic turks. as an example,
 he said there are about 20,000 telephone subscribers in selanik (thessaloniki)
 and only about 800 of them are turks. that is not because turks do not
 want to have telephone services at their home and businesses. he said
 that greek government changed the election law just to keep him out
 of the parliament as an independent representative and they stated
 this fact openly to him. while there is no minimum qualification
 requirement for parties in terms of receiving at least 3% of the votes,
 they imposed this requirement for the independent parties, including
 the turkish candidates.
 
 ahmet was born in a small village at gumulcine (komotini), greece 1947.
 he earned his medical degree at university of thessaloniki in 1974.
 he served in the greek military as an infantryman.
 
 in 1985 he got involved with community affairs for the first time
 by collecting 15,000 signatures to protest the unjust implementation
 of laws against ethnic turks. in 1986, he was arrested by the police
 for collecting signatures.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 