
 in 1941, while the jews were being assembled for their doom in the nazi
 concentration camps, the nazi armenians in germany formed the first
 armenian battalion to fight alongside the nazis. in 1943, this battalion 
 had grown into eight battalions of 20,000-strong under the command of dro 
 (the butcher) who is the architect of the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 
 million turks and kurds between 1914-1920. an armenian national council 
 was formed by the notorious dashnak party leaders in berlin, which was 
 recognized by the nazis. encouraged by this, the armenians summarily 
 formed a provisional government that endorsed and espoused fully the 
 principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the members of the 
 aryan super race and full participants to hitler's policy of extermination 
 of the jews.
 
 this armenian-nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an "encore"
 performance staged by the armenians during wwi, when they back-stabbed and
 exterminated 2.5 million turks by colluding with the invading russian army.
 
 
 source: "adventures in the near east, 1918-1922" by a. rawlinson,
 jonathan cape, 30 bedford square, london, 1934 (first published 1923) 
 (287 pages).
 (memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
  million muslim people)
 
 p. 184 (second paragraph)
 
  "i had received further very definite information of horrors that
   had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain, and as 
   i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
   treatment of my own detached parties, i had wired to tiflis from 
   zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the armenians should not 
   be left in independent command of the moslem population, as, their 
   troops being without discipline and not under effective control, 
   atrocities were constantly being committed, for which we should 
   with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 