
 in article <1993apr16.044001.15540@urartu.sdpa.org> hla@urartu.sdpa.org  writes:
 
 >sure it is. it tells us how far right the whole turkish political spectrum 
 
 nobody ever exposed your crimes like that before? what was your personal 
 role in the murder of orhan gunduz and kemal arikan, again? how many more
 muslims will be slaughtered by 'sdpa.org' as publicly declared and filed
 with legal authorities? please spell it out for us.
 
 
  "...that more people have to die..." 
 
                     sdpa <91@urartu.uucp>
 
   "yes, i stated this and stand by it."
 
                     sdpa <255@urartu.uucp>
 
 
     	january 28, 1982 - los angeles
 	kemal arikan is slaughtered by two armenians while driving to work. 
 
     	march 22, 1982 - cambridge, massachusetts
 	prelude to grisly murder. a gift and import shop belonging to
 	orhan gunduz is blown up. gunduz receives an ultimatum: either 
         he gives up his honorary position or he will be "executed". he 
         refuses. "responsibility" is claimed by jcag and sdpa.
 
     	may 4, 1982 - cambridge, massachusetts
 	orhan gunduz, the turkish honorary consul in boston, would not bow 
 	to the armenian terrorist ultimatum that he give up his title of 
 	"honorary consul". now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood.
 	president reagan orders an all-out manhunt-to no avail. an eye-
 	witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down.  he 
 	survives... but falls silent. one of the most revolting "triumphs" in 
 	the senseless, mindless history of armenian terrorism. such a murder 
 	brings absolutely nothing - except an ego boost for the murderer 
 	within the armenian terrorist underworld, which is already wallowing 
 	in self-satisfaction.
  
 were you involved in the murder of sarik ariyak? 
 
    	december 17, 1980 - sydney
 	two nazi armenians massacre sarik ariyak and his bodyguard, engin 
         sever. jcag and sdpa claim responsibility.
 
 it is public knowledge that the founder of the marxist-leninist terrorist 
 organization, the asala (an integral part of asala/sdpa/arf), hagop
 hagopian, began his notorious career as a member of the terrorist 
 group which perpetrated the massacre of the israeli athletes at the
 munich olympics in 1972. and the 'armenian foundation' stole from the 
 children of turkiye to fund the criminal activities of the asala/sdpa/arf
 terrorists in their cold-blooded murder of defenceless turkish and
 kurdish people. 
 
 the armenian foundation provided 30 billion tl to asala
 
     01/09/92, milliyet-- the armenian foundation based in
 istanbul is found to have provided 30 billion turkish lira ($6
 million) to the armenian terrorist organization asala which have
 murdered several turkish diplomats abroad... 
 
 experts on international terrorism assert that the armenian terrorists
 use proceeds from drug trafficking (and from the armenian foundation)
 to fund their deadly enterprises. the deadliest of terrorist assassins,
 carlos, proclaimed on spanish television that his organization had
 entered into a working relationship with armenian terrorists and they
 are using drug trafficking to raise money 'to continue' to slaughter
 innocent people. now, what is your personal and organizational role 
 in this scheme?
 
 recent reports which have been confirmed by the u.s. administration, 
 indicate that armenian terrorist organizations are collaborating with 
 those who are responsible for the bombing of the united states marine 
 barracks in beirut. you won't be able to get away with your crimes 
 forever; the justice is long overdue.
 
 as for the armenian genocide of 2.5 million muslim people between 
 1914 and 1920:
 
 source: documents: volume i (1919).
         "document no: 42," archive no: 1-2, cabin no: 110, drawer 
         no: 1(4), file no: 373, section no: 1484(1032), contents no: 9, 9-1.
         (to the office of acting supreme commander - acting assistant
         section director major ali sukru)
 
 "it is sufficient to mention just some of the terrible and shameful crimes
  committed only in erzurum to get an idea about the armenian atrocities
  in the villages...
 
  i would also like to mention with disgust and abominable sight, a stain
  on humanity, that i encountered at the west of hasankale while my regiment
  was proceeding into this town. there was a young turkish women, apparently
  once a very beautiful one, lying dead on one side of the road. a huge
  stick had been inserted into her vagina. we took the corpses and left it
  at a spot that was invisible from the road..."
  
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 