
 in article <c5yc1k.f84@news.cso.uiuc.edu> ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis ) writes:
 
 >>        sure your memory is weak. 
 >>        let me refresh your memory (if that's not to late):
 
 >>        first of all: it is called istanbul. 
 >>        let me even spell it for you: i s t a n b u l
 
 >    when my grandfather came in greece, the official name of the city was
 >    constantinoupolis.  
 
 are you related to 'arromdian' of asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism 
 triangle?
 
 >now, read carefully the following, and then speak:
 >the recent helsinki watch 78 page report, broken promises: torture and
 
 ditto.
 
 |1|
 
 helsinki watch: "problems of turks in western thrace continue"
 
 ankara (a.a)  in a 15-page report  of the "helsinki watch"  it is
 stated that the turkish minority in western thrace is still faced
 with problems and stipulated that the discriminatory policy being
 implemented by the greek government be brought to an end.
 
 the report on western thrace emphasized that the greek government
 should grant  social and political  rights to all the  members of
 minorities that are equal to  those enjoyed by greek citizens and
 in addition  they must  recognize the  existence of  the "turkish
 minority" in western thrace and  grant them the right to identify
 themselves as 'turks'.
 
 newspot, may 1992
 
 |2|
 
 greece isolates west thrace turks
 
 the  xanthi independent  mp ahmet  faikoglu said  that the  greek
 state is trying to cut all  contacts and relations of the turkish
 minority with turkey.
 
 pointing out that while the  greek minority living in istanbul is
 called "greek"  by ethnic  definition, only  the religion  of the
 minority in  western thrace is  considered. in an  interview with
 the greek  newspaper "ethnos" he said:  "i am a greek  citizen of
 turkish origin. the individuals of the minority living in western
 trace are also turkish."
 
 emphasizing  the education  problem for  the turkish  minority in
 western  thrace  faikoglu said  that  according  to an  agreement
 signed in 1951 greece must distribute textbooks printed in turkey
 in turkish minority schools in western thrace.
 
 recalling his activities and those of komotini independent mp dr.
 sadik  ahmet  to  defend  the rights  of  the  turkish  minority,
 faikoglu said.  "in fact we  helped greece. because  we prevented
 greece, the cradle of democracy, from losing face before european
 countries by forcing the greek  government to recognize our legal
 rights."
 
 on turco-greek relations, he pointed  out that both countries are
 predestined  to live  in  peace for  geographical and  historical
 reasons and said  that turkey and greece must  resist the foreign
 powers  who  are  trying  to   create  a  rift  between  them  by
 cooperating, adding  that in  turkey he  observed that  there was
 will to improve relations with greece.
 
 newspot, january 1993
 
 |3|
 
 macedonian human rights activists to face trial in greece.
 
 two ethnic macedonian  human rights activists will  face trial in
 athens for alleged crimes against the greek state, according to a
 court summons (no. 5445) obtained by mils.
 
   hristos  sideropoulos and  tashko bulev  (or anastasios  bulis)
 have been charged under greek criminal law for making comments in
 an athenian magazine.
 
   sideropoulos and  bulev gave an  interview to the  greek weekly
 magazine  "ena"  on  march  11,  1992,  and  said  that  they  as
 macedonians were  denied basic human  rights in greece  and would
 field  an ethnic  macedonian  candidate for  the up-coming  greek
 general election.
 
   bulev said in the interview: "i am not greek, i am macedonian."
 sideropoulos said  in the  article that "greece  should recognise
 macedonia.  the  allegations  regarding  territorial  aspirations
 against  greece are  tales... we  are in  a panic  to secure  the
 border, at  a time when the  borders and barriers within  the eec
 are falling."
 
   the  main  charge  against  the two,  according  to  the  court
 summons,  was   that  "they  have   spread...intentionally  false
 information  which  might  create   unrest  and  fear  among  the
 citizens,  and  might affect  the  public  security or  harm  the
 international interests of the country (greece)."
 
   the  greek  state  does  not   recognise  the  existence  of  a
 macedonian ethnicity. there are believed to be between 350,000 to
 1,000,000  ethnic  macedonians   living  within  greece,  largely
 concentrated in the north. it is  a crime against the greek state
 if anyone declares themselves macedonian.
 
   in  1913  greece,   serbia-yugoslavia  and  bulgaria  partioned
 macedonia into three  pieces. in 1919 albania  took 50 macedonian
 villages. the part under  serbo-yugoslav occupation broke away in
 1991  as the  independent republic  of macedonia.  there are  1.5
 million macedonians in the republic; 500,000 in bulgaria; 150,000
 in albania; and 300,000 in serbia proper.
 
   sideropoulos  has been  a long  time campaigner  for macedonian
 human rights in  greece, and lost his job as  a forestry worker a
 few years ago.  he was even exiled to an  obscure greek island in
 the mediteranean. only pressure from amnesty international forced
 the greek government  to allow him to return to  his home town of
 florina (lerin) in northern  greece (aegean macedonia), where the
 majority of ethnic macedonians live.
 
   balkan watchers see the sideropoulos  affair as a show trial in
 which  greece is  desperate to  clamp down  on internal  dissent,
 especially  when it  comes to  the issue  of recognition  for its
 northern neighbour, the republic of macedonia.
 
   last year the  state department of the  united states condemned
 greece for its bad treatment of ethnic macedonians and turks (who
 largely live in western thrace). but it remains to be seen if the
 us government  will do anything until  the presidential elections
 are over.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 