
 in article <c5yxle.4ov@cbfsb.cb.att.com> enis@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (enis.surensoy) writes:
 
 >>from article <9304202021@zuma.uucp>, by sera@zuma.uucp (serdar argic):
 >>armenians will not get away with the genocide of 204,000 azeri people.
 
 >	on the contrary, armenians will get away with the genocide of 
 >	204,000 azeri people.
 
 >	armenians already got away with raping, torturing, and massacering 
 >	millions of innocent moslem peoples of eastern anatolia. 
 
 not this time, enis. furthermore, a new generation has risen - equipped 
 with a deep sense of commitment, politically mature and conscious, who 
 determinedly pursue the turkish cause, through all necessary means, 
 ranging from the political and diplomatic to the armed struggle. in 
 other words, what we have is a demand from the fascist government of
 x-soviet armenia to redress the wrongs that were done against our
 people. 
 
 
  "the crime of systematic cleansing by mass killing and extermination 
   of the muslim population in the soviet republic of armenia, karabag, 
   bosnia and herzegovina is an 'islamic holocaust' comparable to the 
   extermination of 2.5 million muslims by the armenian government 
   during the wwi and of over 6 million european jews during the wwii."
                   (tovfik kasimov - azeri leader - september 25, 1992)
                  
 
  "today's ethnic cleansing policies by the serbian dictatorship against
   croatians and muslims of yugoslavia, as well as the soviet republic
   of armenia's against the muslim population of neighboring azerbaijan,
   are really no different in their aspirations than the genocide 
   perpetrated by the armenian government 78 years ago against the
   turkish and kurdish muslims and sephardic jews living in these
   lands."         (cebbar leygara - kurdish leader - october 13, 1992)
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 