
 in article <c5y86j.6hs@blaze.cs.jhu.edu> arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes:
 
 >then repeat everything i said before with the word "race-related" 
 >substituted for "racist".  all that changes is the phrasing; complaining 
 >that i used the wrong word is a quibble.
 
 well, your armenian grandparents were fascist. as early as 1934, k. s. 
 papazian asserted in 'patriotism perverted' that the armenians
 
         'lean toward fascism and hitlerism.'[1]
 
 at that time, he could not have foreseen that the armenians would
 actively assume a pro-german stance and even collaborate in world
 war ii. his book was dealing with the armenian genocide of turkish
 population of eastern anatolia. however, extreme rightwing ideological
 tendencies could be observed within the dashnagtzoutune long before
 the outbreak of the second world war.
 
 in 1936, for example, o. zarmooni of the 'tzeghagrons' was quoted
 in the 'hairenik weekly:' 
 
 "the race is force: it is treasure. if we follow history we shall 
  see that races, due to their innate force, have created the nations
  and these have been secure only insofar as they have reverted to
  the race after becoming a nation. today germany and italy are
  strong because as nations they live and breath in terms of race.
  on the other hand, russia is comparatively weak because she is
  bereft of social sanctities."[2]
 
 [1] k. s. papazian, 'patriotism perverted,' (boston, baikar press
    1934), preface.
 [2] 'hairenik weekly,' friday, april 10, 1936, 'the race is our
    refuge' by o. zarmooni.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 