
 
 
 many of you ask me whether i approve of severe human rights
 violations by arab states becuse i focus on israeli human rights
 violations.
 
 let's make things clear: my opposition to h.r. violations in arab
 states is total and without qualification. no arab state is and can
 claim to be democratic. no arab state claims to be democratic.
 
 i am born in palestine (now israel). i have family there. the lack of
 peace and utter injustice in my home country has affected me all my life.
 i am concerned by palestine (israel) because i want peace to come to
 it. peace and justice. 
 
 if anybody has legitimate claims towards arab states, he should present
 his claims and ask for support. jews who left arab states are fully 
 entitled to make claims and should do so, if they consider their case has
 a merit. it is their basic right to return to these countries, if they
 wish. if not, they should not complain and compare themselves to the
 palestinians who have been struggling for the right of return since
 israel was established and whose right is upheld by the united nations
 quasi totally. if jews feel discriminated in arab countries, they have a
 legitimate claim that any decent person can and should support. 
 
 human rights violations by arab states don't justify, legitimate nor
 are the cause for israeli breaches of international law and human rioghts.
 israeli breaches stem from the zionist concept, which can only be
 implemented by negating basic rights to palestinians. 
 
 israeli trights and palestinian rights are not symmetrical. the first
 party has a state and the other has none. the first is an occupier and
 the second the occupied. for any meaningful relationship to emerge, some
 symmetry must be established. as long as israelis and jews don't realise
 the necessity of a change of perspective towards the palestinian people
 and as long as israelis and jews don't want to exorcise their own
 past towards the palestinians (the naqba of 1948, etc.) and refuse to
 acknowledge that the creation of israel was dependent upon the removal
 of most palestinian arabs, there will be no base for a real trust.
 
 when i read the first time the list of the 383 arab villages
 destroyed by the state of israel in and after 1948, i got a shock. 
 i hope others will be touched by this discovery and think about the
 meaning of such massive destruction and destitution.
 
 elias davidsson
 iceland
 
 