
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: conf:mideast.levant
 
 
 rights of children violated by the state of israel (selected
 articles of the iv geneva convention of 1949)
 -------------------------------------------------------------
 article 31:  no physical or moral coercion shall be exercised
 against protected persons, in particular to obtain information
 from them or from third parties.
 
 article 32:  the high contracting parties specifically agree that
 each of them is prohibited from taking any measure of such a
 character as to cause the physical suffering or extermination of
 protected persons in their hands. this prohibition applies not
 only to murder, torture, corporal punishment (...) but also to any
 other measures of brutality whether applied by civilian or
 military agents.
 
 article 33:  no protected person may be punished for an offence he
 or she has not personally committed. collective penalties and
 likewise measures of intimidation or of terrorism are prohibited.
 
 article 34:  taking of hostages is prohibited.
 
 article 49:  individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as
 deportations of protected persons from occupied territory to the
 territory of the occupying power or to that of any other country,
 occupied or not, are prohibited, regardless of their motive.
 
 article 50:  the  occupying power shall, with the cooperation of
 the national and local authorities, facilitate the proper working
 of all institutions devoted to the care and education of
 children.
 
 article 53:  any destruction by the occupying power of real or
 personal property belonging individually or collectively to
 private persons, or to the state, or to other public authorities,
 or to social or cooperative organizations, is prohibited, except
 where such destruction is rendered absolutely necessary by
 military operations.
 
 ps: it is obvious that violations of the above articles are also
 violations of the international convention of the rights of the
 child.
 
 