
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: assistance to palest.people
 
 
 u.n. general assembly resolution 46/201 of 20 december 1991
 
 assistance to the palestinian people
 ---------------------------------------------
 the general assembly
 
 recalling its resolution 45/183 of 21 december 1990
 
 taking into account the intifadah of the palestinian people in the
 occupied palestinian territory against the israeli occupation,
 including israeli economic and social policies and practices,
 
 rejecting israeli restrictions on external economic and social
 assistance to the palestinian people in the occupied palestinian
 territory,
 
 concerned about the economic losses of the palestinian people as a
 result of the gulf crisis,
 
 aware of the increasing need to provide economic and social
 assistance to the palestinian people,
 
 affirming that the palestinian people cannot develop their
 national economy as long as the israeli occupation persists,
 
 1. takes note of the report of the secretary-general on assistance
 to the palestinian people;
 
 2. expresses its appreciation to the states, united nations bodies
 and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that have
 provided assistance to the palestinian people,
 
 3. requests the international community, the united nations system
 and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to
 sustain and increase their assistance to the palestinian people,
 in close cooperation with the palestine liberation organization
 (plo), taking in account the economic losses of the palestinian
 people as a result of the gulf crisis;
 
 4. calls for treatment on a transit basis of palestinian exports
 and imports passing through neighbouring ports and points of exit
 and entry;
 
 5. also calls for the granting of trade concessions and concrete
 preferential measures for palestinian exports on the basis of
 palestinian certificates of origin;
 
 6. further calls for the immediate lifting of israeli restrictions
 and obstacles hindering the implementation of assistance projects
 by the united nations development programme, other united nations
 bodies and others providing economic and social assistance to the
 palestinian people in the occupied palestinian territory;
 
 7. reiterates its call for the implementation of development
 projects in the occupied palestinian territory, including the
 projects mentioned in its resolution 39/223 of 18 december 1984;
 
 8. calls for facilitation of the establishment of palestinian
 development banks in the occupied palestinian territory, with a
 view to promoting investment, production, employment and income
 therein;
 
 9. requests the secretary-general to report to the general
 the general assembly at its 47th session, through the economic and social
 council, on the progress made in the implementation of the present
 resolution.
 -----------------------------------------------
 
 in favour 137 countries (europe, canada, australia, new zealand,
 japan, africa, south america, central america and asia) against:
 united states and israel abstaining: none
 
 
 