
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: zionism - racism
 
 
 diaspora 'a cancer'
 ------------------- by julian kossoff and lindsay schusman in:
 jewish chronicle, london, 22. dec. 1989
 
 leading israeli author and cultural commentator, a.b. yehoshua,
 launched a ferocious attack on diaspora jewry at a zionist youth
 council meeting in north london, last week.
 
 the diaspora, he claimed, "was the cancer connected to the main
 tissue of the jewish people". he was scathing about its failure to
 act before the holocaust.
 
 he said the diaspora's religious and secular leadership had
 ignored the warning signs in the 1920s, and had fiercely opposed
 zionism. consequently, he considered the holocaust, "the failure
 of judaism".
 
 his talk, entitled "diaspora: a neurotic solution", covered 5,000
 years of jewish history.
 
 mr. yehoshua's other targets included soviet jews who were, he
 said "not staying [in israel], but running [away]", and all jews
 outside israel "who were using other people's countries like
 hotels".
 
 the only conclusion he could draw was that the diaspora was
 immoral, because it looked to israel for its identity but lived
 elsewhere.
 
 worse, it threatened israel itself, creating a distraction for her
 citizens, who were leaving by the thousands.
 
 mr. yehoshua, who described himself as "a soldier for aliyah",
 ended by calling for the creation of a new "total jew", living in
 israel.
 
 earlier, speaking at a meeting of jewish students on the
 difficulties of forging a national identity in israeli literature,
 mr. yehoshua claimed that israeli writers were paralyzed by the
 country's political situation.
 
 he said israel's wars had once provided writers with a vital
 source of inspiration.  today, israeli writers avoided writing
 directly about the arab-israeli conflict. no major work had been
 produced about the intifada.
 
 instead, writers were tackling themes such as jewish identity,
 emigration from israel and personal and family issues.
 
 mr. yehoshua admitted he also felt unable to write about the
 israeli political situation. he could no longer step into an
 israeli arab's shoes and portray him as a real "flesh and blood
 character".
 
 he claimed that after 40 years of statehood, the problem of
 israeli identity had not been solved. he said jews remained too
 pre-occupied with the borders of identity between jew and non-jew,
 and were not concerned with the nature of that identity.
 
 jewish values in israel embraced every aspect of daily life,
 unlike in the diaspora, where jews had no responsibility for the
 country they lived in, he said.
 
 he warned that modern hebrew, a unifying force for the jewish
 people, would have to struggle for its future, especially in
 literary circles. it faced fierce competition from the english
 language.
 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 