
 
 from: _quantum_ magazine, march/april 1993 pages 42-46
 
 	the problem book of anania of shirak
 	------------------------------------
 
 		"on the ancient peak of ararat
 		the centuries have come like seconds
 		and passed on."
 				-avetik issahakian
 
 by yuri danilov
 
 some years ago journalists interviewing celebrities liked to ask them: "what
 books would you take with you if you were to go off on a space flight?" and 
 though the number of books allowed on the trip varied from 10 to 30, 
 depending on the type of spacecraft and the generosity of the interviewer, 
 and celebrities are people of the most varied tastes, ages, and professions, 
 not one of them dared to say that he or she would want to take with them at
 least one book of arithmetic problems.
 
 some of these people certainly excluded this kind of literature because they 
 were trained in the humanities and had nothing but scorn for "numbers" (though 
 secretly afraid of them). others steered clear of such puzzle books because 
 they were masters of incomparably more difficult branches of modern 
 mathematics and didn't mind saying for all the world to hear that they didn't 
 know how to solve mere arithmetic problems. professional mathematicians were 
 no exception. here's what the russian mathematician alexander khinchin, a 
 specialist in statistics, wrote about arithmetic: "i willingly confess that 
 any time a fifth-grader asked me to help solve an arithmetic problem, it was
 a hard work for me, and sometimes i failed completely. of course, like most of 
 my friends, i could easily solve the problem by the natural algebraic route
 --constructing equations or sets of equations. but we were supposed to avoid 
 using algebraic analysis at all costs! . . . by the way, it's a fact that is 
 well known and oft repeated that, as a rule, neither high school graduates, 
 nor students at teaching colleges, nor teachers beginning their careers
 (nor, i must add, scientific researchers) can solve arithmetic problems. it 
 seems the only people in the world who are able to solve them are fifth-grade 
 teachers."
 
 now, i'm not insisting that a book of arithmetic problems be included in the 
 bookbag of anyone flying into space. but a sense of justice induces me to 
 recommend one particular problem book, one that will satisfy the most 
 fastidious taste and supply food for thought sufficient not only for a 
 relatively short flight to the moon but for a extended space voyage--say, to
 venus and back.
 
 			one for the "road"
 
 	they both took out the books they brought for the road. kingsley 
 	glanced at the royal astronomer's book and saw a bright cover with 
 	a group of cutthroats shooting at each other with revolvers. "god 
 	knows what this kind of stuff leads to," thought kingsley.
 
 	the royal astronomer looked at kingsley's book and saw the history 
 	of herodotus. "good lord, next he'll be reading thucydides," thought 
 	the royal astronomer.
 					--fred hoyle, the black cloud
 
 the book i'm talking about isn't very big, but its 24 problems constitute 24 
 elegant miniatures from seventh-century armenia. naive and wise at the same
 time, rich in striking detail and the bright coloration of the period, these 
 problems are reminiscent of the reliefs on the famous monument of armenian 
 architecture, the church on the island of akhtamar in lake van (in what is 
 now turkey_. they are as inseparable from the image of armenia as the elegant 
 letters of the armenian alphabet, invented by mesrop mashtots, or the songs of 
 komitas, or the paintings of saryan.
 
 an edition of these incredibly beautiful problems has long been a 
 bibliographic rarity. it was published under the title problems and solutions
 of vardapet [1] anania of shirak, armenian mathematician of the seventh 
 century (translated and published by i. a. orbeli, petrograd, 1918).
 
 the abundance of close observations and wide-ranging information about the way 
 of life and customs of that remote epoch when anania of shirak lived and 
 worked have actually rendered a disservice to his problem book. for many years 
 the book was known only to researchers in the humanities--specialists in 
 armenian history who jealously guarded their treasure and wouldn't let just
 anyone see it. even now, after research by k. p. patkanov, the learned monk 
 father kaloust, j.i. orbeli, a. abramyan, v. k. chaloyan, and others has 
 brought the works of anania of shirak to light in scholarly circles, the 
 general reader remains ignorant of the very existence of this remarkable 
 problem book.
 
 		vardapet anania of shirak
 
 	once fell in love with the art of calculation, i thought that no 
 	philosophical notion can be constructed without number, considering 
 	it the mother of all wisdom.
 					--anania of shirak
 
 among ancient armenian thinkers, vardapet anania of shirak stands out because 
 of the breadth of his interests and the unique mathematical orientation of his 
 work. some of his works have been preserved. in addition to the problems and
 solutions, the following tracts have found a special place in the estimation
 of scholars: on weights and measures, cosmography and calendrical theory, and
 armenian geography of the seventh century a.d. (the authorship of the last
 work was long attributed to another outstanding thinker of ancient armenia, 
 movses of khoren).
 
 in his autobiography, anania of shirak has this to say about himself:
 
 	i, anania of shirak, having studied all the science of our
 	armenian land and having learned the holy scripture intimately, 
 	in the expression of the psalmist, "every day i illuminated the 
 	eyes of my mind." feeling myself lacking in the art of calculation,
 	i came to the conclusion that it is fruitless to study philosophy, 
 	the mother of all sciences, without number. i could find in armenia 
 	neither a man versed in philosophy nor books that explained the 
 	sciences. i therefore went to greece and met in theodosiople a man 
 	named iliazar who was well versed in ecclesiastical works. he told me
 	that in forth armenia [2] there lived a famous mathematician,
 	christosatur. i went this person and spent six months with him. but 
         soon i noticed that christosatur was a master not of all science but 
         only of certain fragmentary facts.
 
 	i then went to constantinople, where i met acquaintances who told me: 
 	"why did you go so far, when much closer to us, in trebizon, on the 
 	coast of pontus [3] lives the byzantine vardapet tyukhik. he is full 
 	of wisdom, is known to kings, and knows armenian literature." i asked 
 	them how they knew this. they answered: "we saw ourselves that many 
 	people traveled long distances to become pupils of so learned a man. 
 	indeed the archdeacon of the patriarchate of constantinople,
 	philagrus, traveled with us, bringing many young persons to become 
 	pupils of tyukhik." when i heard this, i expressed my gratitude to 
 	god, who had quenched the thirst of his slave.
 
 	i went to tyukhik at the monastery of st. eugene and explained why i 
 	had come. he received me graciously and said: "i praise our lord that 
 	he sent you to learn and to transplant science in the domain of st. 
 	gregory; i am glad that all your country will learn from me. i myself 
 	lived in armenia for many years as a youth. ignorance reigned there." 
 	vardapet tyukhik loved me as a son and shared all his thoughts with 
 	me. the lord bestowed upon me his blessing: i completely assimilated 
 	the science of number, and with such success that my fellow students
 	at the king's court began to envy me.
 
 	i spent eight years with tyukhik and studied many books that had not 
 	been translated into our language. for the vardapet had an innumerable 
 	collection of books: secret and explicit, ecclesiastical and pagan, 
 	books on art, history, and medicine, books of chronologies. why 
 	enumerate them by title? in a word, there is no book that tyukhik did 
 	not have. and he had such a gift from the holy spirit for translating
 	that when he sat down to translate something from the greek into 
 	armenian, he did not struggle as other translators did, and the 
 	translation read as if the work were written in that language 
 	originally.
 
 	tyukhik told me how he had achieved such vast erudition and how he had 
 	learned the armenian language. "when i was young," he said, "i lived 
 	in trebizon, at the court of the military chief ioannus patricus, and 
 	for a long time, up to the accession of mauritius to the throne i 
 	served as a military man in armenia and learned your language and 
 	literature. during one attack by persian troops on the greeks, i was 
 	wounded and escaped to antioch. i lost all my possessions. praying to 
 	the lord to heal my wounds, i made a promise: "if you prolong my life, 
 	i shall dedicate it not to accumulating perishable treasures but to 
 	collecting treasures of knowledge." and the lord heard my prayers. 
 	after i recovered i went to jerusalem, and from there to alexandria 
 	and rome. upon returning to constantinople, i met a famous philosopher 
 	from athens and studied with him for many years. after that i returned 
 	to my homeland and began to teach and instruct my people."
 
 	after some years that philosopher died. not finding a replacement for 
 	him, the king and his courtiers sent for tyukhik and invited him to 
 	assume the teacher's position. tyukhik, citing the promise he made to 
 	god not to move far from the city, turned down the offer. but because
 	of his wide leaning, people came streaming from all countries to study 
 	with him.
 
 	and i, the most insignificant of all armenians, having learned from 
 	him this powerful science, desired by kings, brought it to our 
 	country, supported by no one, obligated only to my own industry, god's 
 	help, and the prayers of the blessed educator. and no one thanked me 
 	for my efforts.
 
 				problems and solutions
 
 	a half and one sixth and one nine-ninth of all the books were printed
 	on verge'; one fifth and one two-hundred-eighty-fifth--on rag paper; 
 	one forty-fifth and one eight-hundred-fifty-fifth--on vellum, and 
 	forty-five inscribed copies--on dutch paper. and so, find how many 
 	copies were printed in all.
 					--imitation of anania of shirak
 
 a latin proverb says habent sua fata libelli ("books have their own fate").
 the fate of problems and solutions by anania of shirak is quite amazing. the
 manuscripts of anania's book were preserved only because, according to 
 armenian historians, "in ancient and medieval armenia manuscripts were guarded 
 from invaders, like weapons, and cherished, like one's own children." biding
 their time, the manuscripts lay in the matenadaran, a renowned depository of 
 ancient manuscripts (now the mesrop mashtots institute of ancient manuscripts).
 and its hour finally arrived. in 1896 the learned monk father kaloust used two 
 manuscripts to publish the problem book, supplementing it with an introduction 
 and commentary. in 1918 the book was translated into russian, edited, 
 annotated, and typeset by iosef orbeli, a prominent scholar (and later a 
 member of the academy of sciences of the ussr).
 
 in the translator's words, the problems of anania are "amusing, full of life, 
 and simple." orbeli goes on to say: "the subjects of the problems are 
 generally taken from everyday life. the scene is predominantly his homeland 
 shirak and the surrounding countryside, and the dramatis personae, if they are 
 named, are the local princes--the kamsarakans, including nersekh, who was a 
 contemporary of anania." like other ancient authors, anania of shirak used 
 only "aliquots" -- that is, fractions with a numerator of 1. when it is
 necessary to write fractions with numerators other than 1, one has to 
 represent it as a sum of aliquots (see the epigraph above).
 
 like any true work of art, the problems of anania suffer terribly in the 
 retelling. you have to read the originals (albeit in translation) in their 
 full glory. so let's open anania's problem book--a gift from across the ages.
 
 problems 1 and 8 relate to the armenian uprising against the persians in a.d. 
 572.
 
 problem 1
 
 my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
 armenians and the persians, prince zaurak kamsarakan performed extraordinary 
 heroic deeds. three times in a single month he attacked the persian troops. 
 the first time, he struck down half of the persian army. the second time, 
 pursuing the persians, he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers. the third 
 time, he destroyed one eleventh of the persian army. the persians who were 
 still alive, numbering two hundred eighty, fled to nakhichevan. and so, from 
 this remainder, find how many persian soldiers there were before the massacre.
 
 problem 8
 
 during the famous armenian uprising against the persians, when zaurak
 kamsarakan killed suren, one of the armenian azats[4] sent an envoy to the
 persian king to report the baleful news. the envoy covered fifty miles in a 
 day. fifteen days later, when he learned of this, zaurak kamsarakan sent 
 riders in pursuit to bring the envoy back. the riders covered eighty miles in 
 a day. and so, find how many days it took them to catch the envoy.
 
 problem 18 mentions vessels made of varying amounts of metal. in the russian 
 translation, they are all called "dishes." but in the original armenian, 
 according to orbeli's note, the dishes in the first and second instances are 
 called mesur, and in the third instance scutel. scutel is a common armenian 
 word, but mesur had not been encountered in armenian literature before 
 anania's problems and solutions.
 
 problem 18
 
 there was a tray in my house. i melted it down and made other vessels from the 
 metal. from one third i made a mesur; from one fourth, another mesur; from
 one fifth, two goblets; from one sixth, two scutels; and from two hundred ten 
 drams, i made a bowl. and now, find the weight of the tray.
 
 several of the problems reflect the richness of the caucasian fauna in 
 anania's time -- for instance, problem 7.
 
 problem 7
 
 once i was in marmet, the capital of the kamsarakans. strolling along the bank 
 of the river akhuryan, i saw a school of fish and ordered that a net be cast. 
 we caught a half and a quarter of the school, and all the fishes that slipped
 out of the net ended up in a creel. when i looked in the creel, i found 
 forty-five fishes. and now, find how many fishes here were in all.
 
 the temptation is great to present all 24 problems. but i'll restrain myself
 and offer you just one more.
 
 problem 20 provides some interesting information about the wild animals that 
 inhabited armenia at one time but now extinct for so long that there is no
 mention of them even in zoological reference books. the wild donkey, according 
 to the generally accepted view, never roamed the armenian lands. yet anania of 
 shirak offers evidence to the contrary .
 
 problem 20
 
 the hunting preserve of nersekh kamsarakan, ter[5] of shirak and asharunik, 
 was at the base of the mountain called artin. one night great herds of wild
 donkey entered the preserve. the hunters could not cope with the donkeys and, 
 running to the village of talin, told nersekh about them. when he arrived with
 his brothers and azats and entered the preserve, they began killing the wild 
 beasts. half of the animals were caught in traps, one fourth were killed by 
 arrows. the young, which constituted one twelfth of all the animals, were 
 caught alive, and three hundred sixty wild donkeys were killed by spears. and 
 so, find how many beasts there were at the start of this massacre.
 
 		"set in type by me, iosef orbeli"
 
 	his biography could not be squeezed into the framework of a 
 	bibliography.
 				-- k uzbashyan, academician
 					iosef abgarovich orbeli
 
 anyone who is lucky enough to hold a copy (1/n of the small printing--n is the 
 solution to the epigraph in the previous section) of the russian translation 
 of anania of shirak's problems and solutions, a thin book with yellowed pages,
 has probably noticed the variety of the fonts, the elegance of the borders, 
 and the high quality of the design, printing, and binding. such great 
 attention to detail is characteristic of works that fulfill a requirement for 
 a degree in bookmaking. and this problem book was indeed a kind of diploma 
 attesting to the professional maturity of the man who created it. an 
 advertisement at the end of the book reads: "this book was typeset in 
 december 1917 at the printing offices of the russian academy of sciences by 
 me, iosef orbeli; the text was also proofread, laid out, and decorated with 
 borders by me. various circumstances prevented me from carrying this project 
 to the end; the final pages of the book were typeset by m. strolman."
 
 typesetting was neither the first nor the only profession of the renowned 
 orientalist iosef orbeli, who later became the director of the hermitage 
 museum in leningrad. he was also a cabinetmaker and a locksmith. orbeli had 
 already become acquainted with the famous academic printing house typis 
 academiae, founded in 1728 and known all over the scientific world for its 
 rich collection of fonts and its virtuoso typesetters. in preparing to publish 
 the corpus of ancient inscriptions preserved on the walls of armenian 
 churches, orbeli found it necessary to create a new font that would preserve 
 the unique signs and ligatures. this complicated work was done by m. g.
 strolman. (unfortunately the entire set of letters was destroyed during the 
 blockade of leningrad in world war ii.)
 
 when orbeli came to the printing offices of the academy of sciences, times 
 were hard. the only way to publish the newly translated problems of anania
 was for orbeli to learn typesetting (he had always been attracted to the 
 printer's craft). in 1922 orbeli became the director of printing at the 
 academy of sciences. even after he retired, he remained a tireless champion
 of russian academic typography.
 
 			back to earth
 
 	this book by definition does not exhaust all the most important 
 	works in this domain. the editor hopes that those who are guilty 
 	of this incompleteness will read these lines and, stung by shame, 
 	will work up, if not a collection like this, at least a monograph.
 
 			--v. bonch-bruyevich introduction to the
 			russian translation of solid-body
 			symmetry by r. knox and a. gold
 
 let's imagine a time when space flight is an everyday thing, and high 
 schoolers will spend their breaks as astronauts-in training in the perelman 
 crater on the far side of the moon. maybe one of the space travelers will take 
 this very copy of quantum, and another, looking over her shoulder, will read 
 this article and say to himself: "this anania from shirak seems like a pretty 
 interesting guy. when i get home i'll try to find his problems."
 
 good luck, my young friend! anania is sure to entertain you. perhaps by then
 there will be more than n copies of his timeless problems and solutions. and 
 we can hope they will be as lovingly printed as the masterpieces created by 
 iosef orbeli.
 
 [1] vardapet (or vartabed) means teacher or learned man in armenian. (the
     armenian language suffers in english from a dual transliteration scheme.
     thus, mesrop is often rendered as "mesrob", komitas as "gomidas," and so 
     on).
 
 [2] fourth armenia was one of fifteen provinces into which, according to
     armenian geography in the seventh century a.d., so-called great armenia
     was divided.
 
 [3] "pontus" (or "pontus euxinus") was an old name for the black sea.
 
 [4] "azats" were members one of several strata of freemen in ancient armenia.
 
 [5] "ter" was the title of the heads of sovereign royal families in ancient 
      armenia.
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 