
 bc744@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman) writes:
 
 
 ...
 >for your information on israel.  since i read both american media
 >and israeli media, i can say with absolute certainty that anybody
 >who reliesx exclusively on the american press for knowledge about
 >israel does not have a true picture of what is going on.
 
 of course you never read arab media,
 
 i read arab, israeli (jer. post, and this network is more than enough)
 and western (american, french, and british) reports and i can say
 that if we give israel -10 and arabs +10 on the bias scale (of course
 you can switch the polarities) israeli newspapers will get either
 a -9 or -10, american leading  newspapers and tv news range from -6
 to -10 (yes there are some that are more israelis than israelis)
 the montreal suburban (a local free newspaper) probably is closer
 to kahane's views than some israeli right wing newspapers, british
 range from 0 (neutral) to -10, french (that iknow of, of course) range
 from +2 (afro-french magazines) to -10, arab official media range from
 0 to -5 (egyptian)  to +9 in sa. why no +10? because they do not want to
 overdo it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since 
 they are doing nothing.
 
  
 >   as to the claim that israeli papers are biased, of course they
 >are.  some may lean to the right or the left, just like the media
 >here in america.  but they still report events about which people
 >here know nothing.  i choose to form my opinions about israel and
 >the mideast based on more knowledge than does an average american
 >who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report
 >on events in the mideast with any consistency or accuracy.
 
 the average bias of what you read would be probably around -9,
 while that of the average american would be the same if they do
 not read or read the new-york times and similar news-makers, and
 -8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers.
 
 so you are not better off.
 
 