
 in article <48299@sdcc12.ucsd.edu> ma170saj@sdcc14.ucsd.edu (system operator) writes:
 
 >or, as we have painfully witnessed in azerbaijan, would like to see 
 >it happen again...
 
 is this the joke of the month? 
 
 1. your fascist grandparents exterminated 2.5 million muslim people
 between 1914 and 1920.
 
 2. your nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the
 european jewry during wwii.
 
 3. your criminal cousins have been slaughtering muslim women, children
 and elderly people in fascist x-soviet armenia and karabag for the last 
 four years.
 
 the entire population of x-soviet armenia now, as a result of the 
 genocide of 2.5 million muslim people, are armenians. 
 
 for nearly one thousand years, the turkish and kurdish people 
 lived on their homeland - the last one hundred under the 
 oppressive soviet and armenian occupation. the persecutions
 culminated in 1914: the armenian government planned and carried 
 out a genocide against its muslim subjects. 2.5 million turks 
 and kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their 
 homeland. after one thousand years, turkish and kurdish lands 
 were empty of turks and kurds. 
 
 the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye.
 
 today, x-soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and 
 kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x-soviet armenia.
 
 today, x-soviet armenian government covers up the genocide perpetrated 
 by its predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against 
 humanity.
 
 x-soviet armenian government must pay for their crime of genocide 
 against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making reparations 
 to the turks and kurds.
 
 turks and kurds demand the right to return to their lands, to determine 
 their own future as a nation in their own homeland.
 
 during the 78th anniversary, we come once again reiterate the
 unity of the muslim people, the timelessness of the turkish
 and kurdish demands and the desire to pursue the struggle
 for that restitution - a struggle that unites all turks and kurds.
 
 today, we appeal to all turkish and kurdish people in the united 
 states and canada to participate en masse in the commemorative 
 events, be they cultural, political or religious.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 