
 in article <c5vbnv.cj@blaze.cs.jhu.edu> arromdee@jyusenkyou.cs.jhu.edu (ken arromdee) writes:
 
 >this implies both sides are equal.  true, it may sometimes be difficult or
 
 still living in an alternate universe? numerous articles in major newspapers 
 (london times) and periodicals (newsweek) during the war, had suggested 
 the existence of a significant collaboration between armenians and the 
 nazis. arthur derounian deserves credit for being the first person to 
 deal with this issue extensively. derounian's motives were twofold: his 
 deeply held democratic convictions gave him a sense of duty and he felt 
 obliged to shed light on this yet another dark chapter of armenian history.
 concurrently, derounian embarked on what one would call 'crisis control' 
 or face-saving. in order to forestall any potential attacks on the larger 
 armenian community in the united states, he marginalized collaboration 
 as deplorable but insignificant.[1]
 
 [1] john roy carlson (real name arthur derounian), 'the plotters,'
     e. p. dutton & company, inc., new york 1946, p. 182.
 
 
  source: "mitteilungsblatt, berlin, december 1939, nr. 2 and 5-6"
 
  yet another historical fact: a fact that for years has been deliberately 
  forgotten, concealed, and wiped from memory - the fact of armenian-nazi 
  collaboration.
 
  a magazine called mitteilungsblatt der deutsch-armenischen gesselschaft
  is the clearest and most definite proof of this collaboration. the 
  magazine was first published in berlin in 1938 during nazi rule of germany
  and continued publication until the end of 1944. even the name of the
  magazine, which implies a declaration of armenian-nazi cooperation,
  is attention-getting.
 
  this magazine, every issue of which proves the collaboration, is historically
  important as documentary evidence. it is a heap of writing that should be
  an admonition to world opinion and to all mankind. 
 
  in nazi germany, armenians were considered to be an aryan race and certain
  political, economic, and social rights were thus granted to them. they 
  occupied positions in public service and were partners in nazi practices.
  the whole world of course knows what awaited those who were not considered 
  "aryan" and what befell them.
 
 now wait, there is more.
 
 source: "from sardarapat to sevres and lausanne" by avetis aharonian. the 
 armenian review, vol. 16, no. 3-63, autumn, sep. 1963, pp. 47-57.
 
 p. 52 (second paragraph).
 
 "your three chiefs, dro, hamazasp and kulkhandanian are the ringleaders
  of the bands which have destroyed tartar villages and have staged 
  massacres in zangezour, surmali, etchmiadzin, and zangibasar. this is
  intolerable. look - and here he pointed to a file of official documents
  on the table - look at this, here in december are the reports of the last
  few months concerning ruined tartar villages which my representative
  wardrop has sent me. the official tartar communique speaks of the
  destruction of 300 villages."
 
 
 p. 54 (fifth paragraph).
 
 "yes, of course. i repeat, until this massacre of the tartars is stopped
  and the three chiefs are not removed from your military leadership i
  hardly think we can supply you arms and ammunition."
 
 "...it is the armed bands led by dro, hamazasp and kulkhandanian who
  during the past months have raided and destroyed many tartar villages in
  the regions of surmali, etchmiadzin, zangezour, and zangibasar. there are
  official charges of massacres."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 