
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: rejoinder. questions to israelis
 
 
 to:  shaig@think.com
 
 subject: ten questions to israelis
 
 dear shai,
 
 your answers to my questions are unsatisfactory.
 
 in the answer to my first question, concerning the nonexistence of
 israeli nationality, your answer conflicts with information i have
 received from other quarters, according to which there are two
 distinct categories of classifying israelis:  citizenship
 (ezrahut) and nationality (le'um). the former is used on passports
 etc, and the later for daily identification in israeli society. i
 am told that people in israel have to carry their id cards at all
 times and present them at many public places, almost every day.
 these id cards make clear who the holder is, a jew or an arab.
 you maintain that this mainly because of religious services
 provided. but do you really believe that this is the reason ?
 could you provide evidence that this is the case and that it
 serves no other purpose ?
 
 in the answer to my second questions, concerning the fact that
 israel has no fixed borders, you state that israel's borders were
 'shaped and reshaped by both war and peace'. according to what i
 read, the first zionists in the beginning of the century, had
 plans for the jewish state to extend into what is lebanon and into
 transjordan (jordan). i also read that it was the express wish of
 ben-gurion to not declare israel's borders, when israel was
 established, as this might restrict israel's opportunities for
 later expansion. israel often claims it right of existence on the
 fact that jews lived there 2000 years ago or that god promised the
 land to them. but according to biblical sources, the area god
 promised would extend all the way to iraq. and what were the
 borders in biblical times which israel considers proper to use
 today ?  finally, if israel wants peace, why can't it declare what
 it considers its legitimate and secure borders, which might be a
 base for negotiations? having all the above facts in mind, one
 cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli expansionism, as a
 number of wars have proved (1948, 1956, 1967, 1982).
 
 your answer to my third question is typical of a stalinist public
 official. i don't think your answer is honest.  you refer me to
 vanunu's revelations about israel's nuclear arsenal without
 evaluating the truthfullness of his revelations. now if he said
 the truth, then why should he been punished, and if he lied, why
 should he be punished? i would appreciate more honesty.
 
 somebody provided an answer to the fourth question, concerning
 'hidden prisoners' in israeli prisons. he posted an article from
 ma'ariv documenting such cases.  it seems that such prisoners do
 exist in israel. what do you think about that ?
 
 you imply that my questions show bias and are formulated in such a
 way to 'cast aspersions upon israel'. such terms have often been
 used by the soviet union against dissidents: they call the soviet
 union into disrepute. if my questions are not disturbing, they
 would not call forth such hysterical answers. my questions are
 clearly provocative but they are meant to seek facts. i would be
 very happy if you could convince me that what i am told about
 israel were just fabrications, but alas you have failed to do so.
 i suspect that you fear the truth and an open and honest
 discussion. this is a sign of weakness, not of strength.
 
 i hope you will muster the courage to seek the full truth.
 
 