
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: rejoinder. questions to israelis
 
 
 dear josh
 
 i appreciate the fact that you sought to answer my questions.
 
 having said that, i am not totally happy with your answers.
 
 1.   you did not fully answer my question whether israeli id cards
 identify the holders as jews or arabs. you imply that u.s.
 citizens must identify themselves by race. is that true ? or are
 just trying to mislead the reader ? do you know of any democratic
 country where people are asked to reveal their ethnical or
 religious identity to any public official who so requests ?
 
 2.  the answer to the second question is evasive. there are all
 kinds of maps issued.  they are not equivalent to state policy.
 you did not respond to my question.
 
 3.  your answer to the third question (israeli nuclear arsenal) is
 interesting. you say that israeli 'probably' stocks nuclear
 weapons. what evidence have you for maintaining that ?
 
 4.  my fourth question was answered by someone else who posted a
 ma'ariv article documenting such cases. i did not ask about cases
 like vanunu (everybody knew he was tried and imprisoned) but about
 those about whom nobody even knows that they have been tried and
 imprisoned.
 
 5.  thanks for clarifying the question concerning the legal status
 of the inhabitants of the occupied territories. from it i
 understand that there are two sets of laws in these ares, one for
 the occupier (civil law) and one for the occupied (military law).
 the law allows israeli arabs to settle in hebron, it seems. if so,
 why doesn't it allow hebron arabs to settle in israel ?
 
 6. your answer to the question concerning rights to return
 conflicts with what i was told, namely that hundreds of thousands
 of non-jews who left for some reason or other the area under
 israel control during the war of 1947-8, were prevented from
 returning for the sole reason they were not jews. jews who also
 left, for example to europe, to avoid the clashes, were allowed to
 return. how can you justify such discrimination, if this is true ?
 is the mere fact of a person leaving area of combat to seek refuge
 somewhere else a reason for stripping him of his right to live in
 his homeland ?
 
 7.  somebody answered my 7.question regarding y. rabin signing an
 order for ethnical cleansing in 1948. according to that
 information, y. rabin signed the order for the expulsion of all
 inhabitants of lydda and ramleh, about 50,000 people.  these
 expulsions were helped by massacres of civilians and other
 atrocities which remind bosnia. i was referred to a book by
 israeli journalist benny goodman called the origin of the
 palestinian refugee problem, published by cambridge university
 press. is this book available in your library ?
 
 8.  you maintain that there are some israeli arabs living in
 israeli kibbutzim. i wonder how many and where. there is very
 little evidence available about that. as much as i know, many
 arabs are working *for* kibbutzim, even for many years, but are
 not accepted as members. could it be that kibbutzim do not want
 arabs ?
 
 9.  my question about the lack of civil marriage in israel was
 whether it is true that the israeli legislator intended to
 discourage intermarriage. you did not address this question but
 evaded it by saying that the 'entire religious establishment wants
 to keep it what way'. i am certain that if only religious
 communities in the u.s. would be asked, they would gladly abolish
 civil marriage so that people would depend upon rabbis and priests
 to officiate marriages. but israel has always been ruled by a
 secular majority. your answer is not satisfactory.
 
 
 i would be glad to have some more input from you after these
 comments.
 
 elias
 
 