
 in article <1993apr25.015551.23259@husc3.harvard.edu> verbit@brauer.harvard.edu (mikhail s. verbitsky) writes:
 
 >	actually, jarmo is a permanent resident of my killfile
 
 anyone care to speculate on this? i'll let the rest of the net judge
 this on its own merits. between 1914 and 1920, 2.5 million turks perished 
 of butchery at the hands of armenians. the genocide involved not only 
 the killing of innocents but their forcible deportation from the russian 
 armenia. they were persecuted, banished, and slaughtered while much of 
 ottoman army was engaged in world war i. the genocide treaty defines 
 genocide as acting with a 
 
   'specific intent to destroy, in whole or in substantial part, a 
    national, ethnic, racial or religious group.' 
 
 history shows that the x-soviet armenian government intended to eradicate 
 the muslim population. 2.5 million turks and kurds were exterminated by the 
 armenians. international diplomats in ottoman empire at the time - including 
 u.s. ambassador bristol - denounced the x-soviet armenian government's policy 
 as a massacre of the kurds, turks, and tartars. the blood-thirsty leaders of 
 the x-soviet armenian government at the time personally involved in the 
 extermination of the muslims. the turkish genocide museums in turkiye honor 
 those who died during the turkish massacres perpetrated by the armenians. 
 
 the eyewitness accounts and the historical documents established,
 beyond any doubt, that the massacres against the muslim people
 during the war were planned and premeditated. the aim of the policy
 was clearly the extermination of all turks in x-soviet armenian 
 territories.
 
 the muslims of van, bitlis, mus, erzurum and erzincan districts and
 their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed.
 the massacres in trabzon, tercan, yozgat and adana were organized and
 perpetrated by the blood-thirsty leaders of the x-soviet armenian 
 government.
 
 the principal organizers of the slaughter of innocent muslims were
 dro, antranik, armen garo, hamarosp, daro pastirmadjian, keri,
 karakin, haig pajise-liantz and silikian.
 
 source: "bristol papers", general correspondence: container #32 - bristol
          to bradley letter of september 14, 1920.
 
 "i have it from absolute first-hand information that the armenians in 
  the caucasus attacked tartar (turkish) villages that are utterly 
  defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder
  the inhabitants, pillage the village and often burn the village."
 
 
 sources: (the ottoman state, the ministry of war), "islam ahalinin 
 ducar olduklari mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat," (istanbul, 1918). 
 the french version: "documents relatifs aux atrocites commises par les armeniens
 sur la population musulmane," (istanbul, 1919). in the latin script: h. k.
 turkozu, ed., "osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi," (ankara,
 1982). in addition: z. basar, ed., "ermenilerden gorduklerimiz," (ankara,
 1974) and, edited by the same author, "ermeniler hakkinda makaleler -
 derlemeler," (ankara, 1978). "askeri tarih belgeleri ...," vol. 32, 83
 (december 1983), document numbered 1881.
 "askeri tarih belgeleri ....," vol. 31, 81 (december 1982), document
  numbered 1869.
 
 "those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning
  with the excuse of forced labor in road construction, they were taken
  in the direction of sarikamis and annihilated. when the russian army
  withdrew, a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian
  massacres and cruelties: they were thrown into wells, they were locked
  in houses and burned down, they were killed with bayonets and swords, in places
  selected as butchering spots, their bellies were torn open, their lungs
  were pulled out, and girls and women were hanged by their hair after
  being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part 
  of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the
  cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering
  from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived
  in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.
  including women and children, such persons discovered so far do not
  exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in
  erzurum. all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled, everything
  that the people had has been taken away from them, and we found them
  in a destitute situation. at the present time, the people are subsisting
  on some food they obtained, impelled by starvation, from russian storages
  left behind after their occupation of this area."
  
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 