
 in article <66118@licre.ludwig.edu.au> theo@licre.ludwig.edu.au writes:
 
 >>         first of all: it is called istanbul. 
 >>         let me even spell it for you: i s t a n b u l
 >>                                       - - - - - - - -
 >> 
 >>         secondly: the turks are also asking for their money, for 
 >>         their destroyed and confiscated properties in greece, and 
 >>         former-yugoslavia (bosnia and serbia).
 
 >classic !!
 
 it is called 'the justice'. we also demand that the x-soviet armenian 
 government admit its responsibility for the turkish and kurdish 
 genocide, render reparations to the muslim people, and return the 
 land to its rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has 
 become an issue which cannot be delayed further, and it is imperative 
 that artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed.
 
 >now if we're talking about rent and vandalism, let's make it fair then: 
 >greece pays back it's dues and turkey pays for 400 years rent and 
 >destruction of classical architecture. deal? democracy in action.
 
 are you the 'truelove' or 'falselove' of 'arromdian' of the asala/sdpa/arf
 terrorism and revisionism triangle? 
 
 "if turks had behaved like christians to use force to convert to islam the
 nations which they brought under their power, to which no one could have
 opposed, today there would be no eastern problem. but turks did not do so. 
 they obeyed the word of the koran to permit everybody "to worship in their own
 way" centuries before frederick the great pronounced his famous dictum. thus,
 in an age when the christian europe itself shed christian blood and when 
 people in europe enjoyed inflicting inhuman tortures upon those whose beliefs
 differed from theirs, the ottoman empire became the sole country where the
 inquisition did not exist, where deaths at the stake were unheard of and 
 where accusations of witchcraft were not made. and the barbarian (!) turkey
 was the only country where the jews persecuted and chased away everywhere
 by the christians, could find asylum. these facts demonstrate that muslim
 countries provided spiritually far better living conditions than christian
 countries."[1]
 
 "the turks, who are a conquering nation, did not turkify the nations that came
 under their rule; instead, they respected their religions and traditions. it
 was a stroke of luck for romania to live under turkish rule instead of
 russian or austrian rule. because otherwise there would not have been a
 romanian nation today" (popescu ciocanel).
 
 "turks rule over people under their administration only externally, without
 interfering with their internal structures. on account of this, the autonomy
 of minorities in turkey is better and more complete than any in the most
 advanced european countries."[2]
 
 "...human beings hate each other on account of religious differences. this flaw
 is older than islam and christianity. but there has never been any examples
 of this adjuration in turkey because turks never oppress anybody on account
 of his religion. if enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of
 simple contempt among us too, or if it did not keep translating itself into
 action, many nations in our europe would probably have considered themselves
 happy!" (a. de mortraye).[3]
 
 "turkey never became a scene for religious terror or for the cruelty of the
 inquisition. on the contrary, it served as an asylum for the unfortunate
 victims of christian fanaticism. if you look into history, you will see that
 in the fifteenth century thousands of jews who were expelled from spain and
 portugal found such a good asylum in turkey that their descendants have been
 living there very calmly all through these approximately three hundred years,
 and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the
 cruelty of christians, especially that of the orthodoxes. no jew is able to
 appear in public during easter celebrations in athens, even today. in turkey,
 however, if the israelites are insulted by the greek and armenian communities,
 local courts immediately take them under their protection."
 
 "in that vast and calm country of the sultan, all religions and nations are
 living together peacefully. although the mosque is superior to the church and
 the synagogue, it does not replace them. because of this, the catholic sect is
 more free in istanbul and smyrna compared with paris and lyon. in addition 
 to the fact that no law in turkey prohibits the open-air ceremonies of this 
 sect, neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. while the
 dead are being taken to the graves, a long line of priests bear processional
 candles and chant catholic hymns. when all the priests in all the churches in
 the galata and beyoglu districts go into the streets and form clerical
 processions during the eucharist celebrations, chanting hymns and bearing
 their crosses and religious banners, a detachment of soldiers escorts them
 which forces even the turks to stand in respect around the group of 
 priests." (a. ubicini).[4]
 
 [1]  ah. djevat, "yabancilara gore eski turkler," 3rd ed. (istanbul, 1978),
      pp. 70-71.
 [2]  ibid., p.91.
 [3]  ibid., pp. 214-215.
 [4]  ibid., pp. 215-216.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 