
 in article <1993apr26.175246.24412@colorado.edu> perlman@qso.colorado.edu (eric s. perlman) writes:
 
 >this has been discussed before, by several people, on this net.  the
 >statement is attributable either to hajj amin al-husseini, former grand
 >mufti of jerusalem - and the leader of the palestinian death squads
 >during the 1948 war, or to one of his chief henchmen.  
 
 let us not forget the nazi armenians. nazi armenians were of service 
 to germans in arab countries as well. as uzun put it, one well-known 
 case which received a lot of media-coverage involved two nazi armenian 
 agents which were dropped over syria by italian war planes. the mission 
 of the agents was to mingle among the armenian population in syria and 
 to acquire relevant information for the german wehrmacht on the allied 
 forces in the area.[1] nazi armenians also helped german propaganda 
 efforts in arab countries designed to promote pro-nazi sentiments among 
 the french- and british-ruled arab populations. beirut had traditionally
 been strong-hold of the nazi armenians and until very recently it was
 the center of international armenian terrorism. 
 
 in russia general dro (the butcher), the architect of the turkish
 genocide in wwi, was working closely with the german secret 
 service. he entered the war zone with his own men and acquired
 important intelligence about the soviets. his experience with
 the turkish genocide in x-soviet armenia made him an invaluable 
 source for the germans.[2]
 
 [1] meyer, berkian, ibid., p. 150. 
 [2] meyer, berkian, ibid., p. 113; patrick von zur muehlen,
     ibid., p. 84.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 