
      accounts of anti-armenian human right violations in azerbaijan #008 part b
                  prelude to current events in nagorno-karabakh
 
 				(part b of #008)
 
       +------------------------------------------------------------------+
       |                                                                  |
       | "oh, yes, i just remembered. while they were raping me they      |
       |  repeated quite frequently, "let the armenian women have babies  |
       |  for us, muslim babies, let them bear azerbaijanis for the       |
       |  struggle against the armenians." then they said, "those         |
       |  muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes!" they repeated     |
       |  it very often."                                                 |
       |                                                                  |
       +------------------------------------------------------------------+
 
 ...continued from part a:
 
 the six of them left. they left and i had an attack. i realized that the dan-
 ger was past, and stopped controlling myself. i relaxed for a moment and the 
 physical pain immediately made itself felt. my heart and kidneys hurt. i had 
 an awful kidney attack. i rolled back and forth on top of those christmas
 ornaments, howling and howling. i didn't know where i was or how long this 
 went on. when we figured out the time, later it turned out that i howled and 
 was in pain for around an hour. then all my strength was gone and i burst into
 tears, i started feeling sorry for myself, and so on and so forth . . .
 
 then someone came into the room. i think i hear someone calling my name. i 
 want to respond and restrain myself, i think that i'm hallucinating. i am 
 silent, and then it continues: it seems that first a man's voice is calling
 me, then a woman's. later i found out that mamma had sent our neighbor, the
 one whose apartment she was hiding in, uncle sabir kasumov, to our place, 
 telling him, "i know that they've killed lyuda. go there and at least bring 
 her corpse to me so they don't violate her corpse." he went and returned empty
 handed, but mamma thought he just didn't want to carry the corpse into his 
 apartment. she sent him another time, and then sent his wife, and they were 
 walking through the rooms looking for me, but i didn't answer their calls. 
 there was no light, they had smashed the chandeliers and lamps.
 
 they started the pogrom in our apartment around five o'clock, and at 9:30 i 
 went down to the kasumovs'. i went down the stairs myself. i walked out of the
 apartment: how long can you wait for your own death, how long can you be 
 cowardly, afraid? come what will. i walked out and started knocking on the 
 doors one after the next. no one, not on the fifth floor, not on the fourth, 
 opened the door. on the third floor, on the landing of the stairway, uncle 
 sabir's son started to shout, "aunt roza, don't cry, lyuda's alive!" he 
 knocked on his own door and out came aunt tanya, igor, and after them, mamma. 
 aunt tanya, uncle sabir's wife, is an urdmurt. all of us were in their 
 apartment. i didn't see karina, but she was in their home, too, lying
 delirious, she had a fever. marina was there too, and my father and mother.
 all of my family had gathered there.
    
 at the door i lost consciousness. igor and aunt tanya carried me into the
 apartment.
 
 later i found out what they had done to our karina. mamma said, "lyuda, 
 karina's in really serious condition, she's probably dying. if she recognizes 
 you, don't cry, don't tell her that her face looks so awful." it was as though
 her whole face was paralyzed, you know, everything was pushed over to one 
 side, her eye was all swollen, and everything flowed together, her lips, her 
 cheeks . . . it was as though they had dragged her right side around the whole
 microdistrict, that's how disfigured her face was. i said, "fine." mamma was 
 afraid to go into the room, because she went in and hugged karina and started 
 to cry. i went in. as soon as i saw her my legs gave way. i fell down near the
 bed, hugged her legs and started kissing them and crying. she opened the eye 
 that was intact, looked at me, and said, "who is it?" but i could barely talk, 
 my whole face was so badly beaten. i didn't say, but rather muttered something
 tender, something incomprehensible, but tender, "my karochka, my karina, my 
 little golden one . . . " she understood me.
 
 then igor brought me some water, i drank it down and moistened karina's lips. 
 she started to groan. she was saying something to me, but i couldn't 
 understand it. then i made out, "it hurts, i hurt all over." her hair was 
 glued down with blood. i stroked her forehead, her head, she had grit on her 
 forehead, and on her lips . . . she was groaning again, and i don't know how 
 to help her. she calls me over with her hand, come closer. i go to her. she's
 saying something to me, but i can't understand her. igor brings her a pencil 
 and paper and says, "write it down." she shakes her head as if to say, no, i 
 can't write. i can't understand what she's saying. she wanted to tell me 
 something, but she couldn't. i say, "karina, just lie there a little while,
 then maybe you'll feel better and you can tell me then." and then she says,
 "maybe it'll be too late." and i completely . . . just broke down, i couldn't
 control myself.
 
 then i moistened my hand in the water and wiped her forehead and eye. i dipped
 a handkerchief into the water and squeezed a little water onto her lips. she 
 says, "lyuda, we're not saved yet, we have to go somewhere else. out of this 
 damned house. they want to kill us, i know. they'll find us here, too. we need
 to call urshan." she repeated this to me for almost a whole hour, until i 
 understood her every word. i ask, "what's his number?" urshan feyruzovich, 
 that's the head of the administration where she works. "we have to call him." 
 but i didn't know his home number. i say, "karina, what's his number?" she 
 says, "i can't remember." i say, "who knows his number? who can i call?" she 
 says, "i don't know anything, leave me alone."
 
 i went out of the room. igor stayed to watch over her and sat there, he was 
 crying, too. i say, "mamma, karina says that we have to call urshan. how can 
 we call him? who knows his telephone number?" i tell marina, "think, think, 
 who can we call to find out?" she started calling; several people didn't 
 answer. she called a girlfriend, her girlfriend called another girlfriend and 
 found out the number and called us back. the boss's wife answered and said he 
 was at the dacha. my voice keeps cracking, i can't talk normally. she says, 
 "lyuda, don't panic, get a hold of yourself, go out to those hooligans and 
 tell them that they just can't do that." she still didn't know what was really
 going on. i said, "it's easy for you to say that, you don't understand what's 
 happening. they are killing people here. i don't think there is a single 
 armenian left in the building, they've cut them all up. i'm even surprised 
 that we managed to save ourselves. "she says, "well, ok, if it's that serious 
 . . . " and all the same she's thinking that my emotions are all churned up 
 and that i'm fearing for my life, that in fact it's not all that bad. "ok, 
 fine, fine," she says, "if you're afraid, ok, as soon as urshan comes back 
 i'll send him over."
 
 we called again because they had just started robbing the apartment directly 
 under aunt tanya's, on the second floor, asya dallakian's apartment. she 
 wasn't home, she was staying with her daughter in karabagh. they destroyed 
 everything there . . . we realized that they still might come back. we kept on
 trying to get through to aunt tanya--urshan's wife is named tanya too and 
 finally we get through. she says, "yes, he's come home, he's leaving for your 
 place now." he came. of course he didn't know what was happening, either, 
 because he brought two of his daughters with him. he came over in his jeep 
 with his two daughters, like he was going on an outing. he came and saw what 
 shape we were in and what was going on in town and got frightened. he has 
 grown up daughters, they're almost my age.
 
 the three of us carried out karina, tossed a coat on her and a warm scarf, and
 went down to his car. he took karina and me to the maternity home. . . no, 
 first they took us to the po]ice precinct. they had stretchers ready. as
 soon as we got out of the car they put karina and me on stretchers and said
 that we were in serious condition and that we mustn't move, we might have
 fractures. from the stretcher i saw about 30 soldiers sitting and lying on the
 first floor, bandaged, on the concrete floor, groaning . . . this was around
 eleven o'clock at night. we had left the house somewhere around 1:30. when i 
 saw those soldiers i realized that a war was going on: soldiers, enemies
 . . . everything just like a war.
 
 they carried me into some office on the stretcher. the emergency medical
 people from baku were there. the medical attendant there was an older 
 armenian. urshan told him what they had done to karina because she's so proud 
 she would never have told. and this aging armenian . . . his name was uncle 
 arkady, i think, because someone said "arkady, get an injection ready," he 
 started to fill a syringe, and turned around so as to give karina a shot. but 
 when he looked at her face he became ill. and he was an old man, in his 
 sixties, his hair was all grey, and his moustache, too. he hugged karina and 
 started to cry: "what have they done to you?!" he was speaking armenian. "what
 have they done to you?!" karina didn't say anything. mamma came in then, and 
 she started to cry, too. the man tried to calm her. "i'll give you a shot." 
 mamma tells him, "i don't need any shot. where is the government? just what 
 are they doing? look what they've done to my children! they're killing people,
 and you're just sitting here!" some teacups were standing on the table in 
 there. "you're sitting here drinking tea! look what they've done to my 
 daughters! look what they've turned them into!" they gave her something to 
 drink, some heart medicine, i think. they gave karina an injection and the
 doctor said that she had to be taken to the maternity home immediately. papa 
 and urshan, i think, even though papa was in bad shape, helped carry karina 
 out. when they put her on the stretcher, none of the medics got near her. i 
 don't know, maybe there weren't any orderlies. then they came to me: "what's 
 the matter with you?" their tone was so official that i wrapped myself tighter
 in the half-length coat. i had a blanket on, too, an orange one, aunt tanya's.
 i said, "i'm fine." uncle arkady came over and was soothing me, and then told 
 the doctor, "you leave, let a woman examine her." a woman came, an 
 azerbaijani, i believe, and said, "what's wrong with you?" i was wearing my 
 sister lyuda's nightshirt, the sister who at this time was in yerevan. when 
 she was nursing her infant she had cut out a big hole in it so that it would 
 be easier to breast feed the baby. i tore the night shirt some more and showed
 her. i took it off my shoulders and turned my back to her. there was a huge 
 wound, about the size of a hand, on my back, from the indian vase. she said 
 something to them and they gave me two shots. she said that it should be 
 dressed with something, but that they'd do that in the hospital.
 
 they put me on a stretcher, too. they started looking for people to carry me. 
 i raised up my head a little and wanted to sit up, and this woman, i don't 
 know if she was a doctor or a nurse, said, "lie still, you mustn't move." when
 i was lying back down i saw two policemen leading a man. his profile seemed 
 very familiar to me. i shouted, "stop!" one of the policemen turned and says, 
 "what do you want?" i say, "bring him to me, i want to look at him." they 
 brought him over and i said, "that person was just in our apartment and he 
 just raped me and my sister. i recognize him, note it down." they said, 
 "fine," but didn't write it down and led him on. i don't know where they were 
 taking him.
 
 then they put my stretcher near where the injured and beaten soldiers were 
 sitting. they went to look for the ambulance driver so he would bring the car 
 up closer. one of the soldiers started talking to me, "sister . . . " i don't 
 remember the conversation exactly, but he asked me were we lived and what they
 did to us. i asked him, "where are you from?" he said that he was from ufa. 
 apparently they were the first that were brought in. the ufa police. later i 
 learned that they suffered most of all. he says, "ok, you're armenians, they 
 didn't get along with you, but i'm a russian," he says, "what are they trying 
 to kill me for?" oh, i remembered something else. when i went out onto the 
 balcony with kuliyev for a hammer and nails i looked out the window and saw 
 two azerbaijanis beating a soldier near the kindergarten. he was pressed 
 against the fence and he covered his head with his arms, they were beating him
 with his own club. the way he cried "mamma" made my skin crawl. i don't know 
 what they did to him, if he's still alive or not. and something else. before 
 he attack on our house we saw sheets, clothes, and some dishes flying from the
 third or fourth floor of the neighboring building, but i didn't think it was 
 azerbaijanis attacking armenians. i thought that something was on fire or they
 were throwing something they didn't need out, or someone was fighting with 
 someone. it was only later, when they were burning a passenger car in the 
 yard, when the neighbors said that they were doing that to the armenians, that
 i realized that this was serious, that it was anti-armenian.
 
 they took karina and me to the sumgait maternity home. mamma went to them too 
 and said, "i've been beaten too, help me." but they just ignored her. my 
 father went to them and said in a guilty voice, as though it was his fault 
 that he'd been beaten, and says, "my ribs hurt so much, those creeps have 
 probably broken my ribs. please look at them." the doctor says, "that's not my
 job." urshan said, "fine, i'll take you to my place and if we need a doctor, 
 i'll find you one. i'll bring one and have him look at you. and he drove them 
 to his apartment.
 
 marina and i stayed there. they examined us. i was more struck by what the 
 doctor said than by what those azerbaijanis in our apartment did to us. i 
 wasn't surprised when they beat us they wanted to beat us, but i was very
 surprised that in a soviet medical facility a woman who had taken the
 hippocratic oath could talk to victims like that. by happy--or unhappy--
 coincidence we were seen by the doctor that had delivered our karina. and she,
 having examined karina, said, "no problem, you got off pretty good. not like 
 they did in kafan, when you armenians were killing and raping our women.
 "karina was in such terrible condition that she couldn't say anything--she
 would certainly have had something to say! then they examined me. the same 
 story. they put us in a separate ward. no shots, no medicinal powders, no 
 drugs. absolutely none! they didn't even give us tea. all the women there soon
 found out that in ward such and such were armenians who had been raped. and
 they started coming and peering through the keyhole, the way people look at 
 zoo animals. karina didn't see this, she was lying there, and i kept her from 
 seeing it.
 
 they put ira b. in our ward. she had also been raped. true, she didn't have 
 any serious bodily injuries, but when she told me what had happened at their 
 place, i felt worse for them than i did for us. because when they raped ira 
 her daughter was in the room, she was under the bed on which it happened. and
 ira was holding her daughter's hand, the one who was hiding under the bed.
 when they were beating ira or taking her earrings off, gold, when she 
 involuntarily let go of her daughter's hand, her daughter took her hand again.
 her daughter is in the fourth grade, she's 11 years old. i felt really awful 
 when i heard that. ira asked them not to harm her daughter, she said, "do what
 you want with me, just leave my daughter alone." well, they did what they 
 wanted. they threatened to kill her daughter if she got in their way. now i 
 would be surprised if the criminals had behaved any other way that night. it 
 was simply bartholomew's night, i say, they did what they would love to do 
 every day: steal, kill, rape . . .
 
 many are surprised that those animals didn't harm the children. the beasts 
 explained it like this: this would be repeated in 15 to 20 years, and those 
 children would be grown, and then, as they put it, "we'll come take the 
 pleasure out of their lives, those children." this was about the girls that
 would be young women in 15 years. they were thinking about their tomorrow 
 because they were sure that there would be no trial and no investigation, just
 as there was no trial or investigation in 1915, and that those girls could be 
 of some use in 15 years. this i heard from the investigators; one of the 
 victims testified to it. that's how they described their own natures, that
 they would still be bloodthirsty in 15 to 20 years, and in 100 years--they
 themselves said that.
 
 and this, too. everyone is surprised that they didn't harm our marina. many 
 people say that they either were drunk or had smoked too much. i don't know 
 why their eyes were red. maybe because they hadn't slept the night before, 
 maybe for some other reason, i don't know. but they hadn't been smoking and 
 they weren't drunk, i'm positive, because someone who has smoked will stop at 
 nothing he has the urge to do. and they spoke in a cultured fashion with 
 marina: "little sister, don't be afraid, we won't harm you, don't look over 
 there [where i was], you might be frightened. you're a muslim, a muslim woman 
 shouldn't see such things." so they were really quite sober . . .
 
 so we came out of that story alive. each every day we have lived since it all 
 happened bears the mark of that day. it wasn't even a day, of those several 
 hours. father still can't look us in the eyes. he still feels guilty for what
 happened to karina, mother, and me. because of his nerves he's started talk-
 ing to himself, i've heard him argue with himself several times when he
 thought no one is listening: "listen," he'll say, "what could i do? what could
 i do alone, how could i protect them?" i don't know where to find the words,
 it's not that i'm happy, but i am glad that he didn't see it all happen. 
 that's the only thing they spared us . . . or maybe it happened by chance. of 
 course he knows it all, but there's no way you could imagine every last detail
 of what happened. and there were so many conversations: karina and i spoke
 together in private, and we talked with mamma, too. but father was never
 present at those conversations. we spare him that, if you can say that. and
 when the investigator comes to the house, we don't speak with father present.
 
 on february 29, the next clay, karina and i were discharged from the hospital.
 first they released me, but since martial law had been declared in the city, 
 the soldiers took me to the police precinct in an armored personnel carrier. 
 there were many people there, armenian victims. i met the tovmasian family 
 there. from them i learned that rafik and their uncle grant had died. they 
 were sure that both had died. they were talking to me and raya, rafik's wife 
 and grant's daughter, and her mother, were both crying.
 
 then they took us all out of the office on the first floor into the yard.
 there's a little one-room house outside there, a recreation and reading area.
 they took us in there. the women were afraid to go because they thought
 that they were shooing us out of the police precinct because it had become
 so dangerous that even the people working at the precinct wanted to hide.
 the women were shouting. they explained to them: "we want to hide you
 better because it's possible there will be an attack on the police precinct."
 
 we went into the little house. there were no chairs or tables in there. we
 had children with us and they were hungry; we even had infants who needed to 
 have their diapers changed. no one had anything with them. it was just awful. 
 they kept us there for 24 hours. from the window of the one room house you 
 could see that there were azerbaijanis standing on the fences around the 
 police precinct, as though they were spying on us. the police precinct is 
 surrounded by a wall, like a fence, and it's electrified, but if they were 
 standing on the wall, it means the electricity was shut off. this brought 
 great psychological pressure to bear on us, particularly on those who hadn't 
 just walked out of their apartments, but who hadn't slept for 24 hours, or 48,
 or those who had suffered physically and spiritually, the ones who had lost 
 family members. for us it was another ordeal. we were especially frightened 
 when all the precinct employees suddenly disappeared. we couldn't see a single
 person, not in the courtyard and not in the windows. we thought that they must
 have already been hiding under the building, that they must have some secret 
 room down there. people were panicking: they started throwing themselves at
 one another . . . that's the way it is on a sinking ship. we heard those 
 people, mainly young people, whistling and whopping on the walls. we felt that
 the end was approaching. i was completely terrified: i had left karina in the 
 hospital and didn't know where my parents were. i was sort of calm about my 
 parents, i was thinking only about karina, if, heaven forbid, they should 
 attack the hospital, they would immediately tell them that there was an 
 armenian in there, and something terrible would happen to karina again, and 
 she wouldn't be able to take it.
 
 then soldiers with dogs appeared. when they saw the dogs some of the people 
 climbed down off the fence. then they brought in about another 30 soldiers.
 they all had machine guns in readiness, their fingers on the triggers. we 
 calmed down a little. they brought us chairs and brought the children some 
 little cots and showed us where we could wash our hands, and took the children
 to the toilet. but we all sat there hungry, but to be honest, it would never 
 have occurred to any of us that we hadn't eaten for two days and that people 
 do eat.
 
 then, closer to nightfall, they brought a group of detained criminals. they 
 were being watched by soldiers with guard dogs. one of the men came back from 
 the courtyard and told us about it. raya tovmasian . . . it was like a 
 different woman had been substituted. earlier she had been crying, wailing, 
 and calling out: "oh, rafik!," but when she heard about this such a rage came 
 over her! she jumped up, she had a coat on, and she started to roll up her 
 sleeves like she was getting ready to beat someone. and suddenly there were 
 soldiers, and dogs, and lots of people. she ran over to them. the bandits were
 standing there with their hands above their heads facing the wall. she went up
 to one of them and grabbed him by the collar and started to shake and thrash 
 him! then, on to a second, and a third. everyone was rooted to the spot. not 
 one of the soldiers moved, no one went up to help or made her stop her from 
 doing it. and the bandits fell down and covered their heads with their hands, 
 muttering something. she came back and sat down, and something akin to a smile
 appeared on her face. she became so quiet: no tears, no cries. then that round
 was over and she went back to beat them again. she was walking and cursing 
 terribly: take that, and that, they killed my husband, the bastards, the 
 creeps, and so on. then she came back again and sat down. she probably did 
 this the whole night through, well, it wasn't really night, no one slept. she 
 went five or six times and beat them and returned. and she told the women, 
 "what are you sitting there for? they killed your husbands and children, they 
 raped, and you're just sitting there. you're sitting and talking as though 
 nothing had happened. aren't you armenians?" she appealed to everyone, but no 
 one got up. i was just numb, i didn't have the strength to beat anyone, i 
 could barely hold myself up, all the more so since i had been standing for so 
 many hours--i was released at eleven o'clock in the morning and it was already
 after ten at night because there weren't enough chairs, really it was the 
 elderly and women with children who sat. i was on my feet the whole time. 
 there was nothing to breathe, the door was closed, and the men were smoking. 
 the situation was deplorable.
 
 at eleven o'clock at night policemen came for us, local policemen, 
 azerbaijanis. they said, "get up. they've brought mattresses, you can wash up
 and put the children to bed." now the women didn't want to leave this place, 
 either. the place had become like home, it was safe, there were soldiers with 
 dogs. if anyone went outside, the soldiers would say, "oh, it's our little 
 family," and things like that. the soldiers felt this love, and probably, for 
 the first time in their lives perceived themselves as defenders. everyone
 spoke from the heart, cried, and hugged them and they, with their loaded
 machine guns in their hands, said, "grandmother, you mustn't approach me,
 i'm on guard." our people would say, "oh, that's all right." they hugged
 them, one woman even kissed one of the machine guns. this was all terribly
 moving for me. and the small children kept wanting to pet the dogs.
 
 they took us up to the second floor and said, "you can undress and sleep in 
 here. don't be afraid, the precinct is on guard, and it's quiet in the city."
 this was the 29th, when the killing was going on in block 41a and in other
 places. then we were told that all the armenians were being gathered at the
 sk club and at the city party committee. they took us there. on the way i 
 asked them to stop at the maternity home: i wanted to take karina with me.
 i didn't know what was happening there. they told me, "don't worry, the
 maternity home is full of soldiers, more than mothers-to-be. so you can rest
 assured. i say, "well, i won't rest assured regardless, because the staff in
 there is capable of anything."
 
 when i arrived at the city party committee it turned out that karina had
 already been brought there. they had seen fit to release her from the hospi-
 tal, deciding that she felt fine and was no longer in need of any care. once
 we were in the city party committee we gave free reign to our tears. we met 
 acquaintances, but everyone was somehow divided into two groups, those who 
 hadn't been injured, who were clothed, who had brought a pot of food with 
 them, and so on, and those, like me, like raya, who were wearing whatever had 
 come their way. there were even people who were all made up, dolled up like 
 they had come from a wedding. there were people without shoes, naked people, 
 hungry people, those who were crying, and those who had lost someone. and of 
 course the stories and the talk were flying: "oh, i heard that they killed 
 him!" "what do you mean they killed him!" "he stayed at work!" "do you know 
 what's happening at this and such a plant? talk like that.
 
 and then i met aleksandr mikhailovich gukasian, the teacher. i know him very 
 well and respect him highly. i've known him for a long time. they had a small 
 room, well really it was more like a study-room. we spent a whole night 
 talking in that study once. on march 1 we heard that bagirov [first secretary 
 of the communist party of azerbaijan ssr] had arrived. everyone ran to see 
 bagirov, what news he had brought with him and how this was all being viewed 
 from outside. he arrived and everyone went up to him to talk to him and ask 
 him things. everyone was in a tremendous rage. but he was protected by 
 soldiers, and he went up to the second floor and didn't deign to speak with 
 the people. apparently he had more important things to do.
 
 several hours passed. gukasian called me and says, "lyudochka, find another 
 two or three. we're going to make up lists, they asked for them upstairs, 
 lists of the dead, those whose whereabouts are unknown, and lists of people 
 who had pogroms of their apartments and of those whose cars were burned." i 
 had about 50 people in my list when they called me and said, "lyuda, your 
 mamma has arrived, she's looking for you, she doesn't believe that you are 
 alive and well and that you're here." i gave the lists to someone and asked 
 them to continue what i was doing and went off.
 
 the list was imprecise, of course. it included grant adamian, raya tovmasian's
 father, who was alive, but at the time they thought him dead. there was engels
 grigorian's father and aunt, cherkez and maria. the list also included the 
 name of my girlfriend and neighbor, zhanna agabekian. one of the guys said 
 that he had been told that they chopped her head off in the courtyard in front
 of the kosmos movie theater. we put her on the list too, and cried, but later 
 it turned out that that was just a rumor, that in fact an hour earlier she had
 somehow left sumgait for the marina and from there had set sail for 
 krasnovodsk, where, thank god, she was alive and well. i should also say that 
 in addition to those who died that list contained people who were rumored 
 missing or who were so badly wounded that they were given up for dead.                                                                 3
 
 all the lists were taken to bagirov. i don't remember how many dead were 
 contained in the list, but it's a fact that when gukasian came in a couple 
 of minutes later he was cursing and was terribly irate. i asked, "what's 
 going on?" he said, "lyuda, can you imagine what animals, what scoundrels
 they are! they say that they lost the list of the dead. piotr demichev
 [member of the politburo of the central committee of the communist party
 of the ussr] has just arrived, and we were supposed to submit the list to
 him, so that he'd see the scope of the slaughter, of the tragedy, whether it
 was one or fifty." they told him that the list had disappeared and they
 should ask everyone who hadn't left for the khimik boarding house all over
 again. there were 26 people on our second list. i think that the number 26
 was the one that got into the press and onto television and the radio, because
 that's the list that demichev got. i remember exactly that there were 26 
 people on the list, i had even told aleksandr mikhailovich that that was only 
 a half of those that were on the first list. he said, "lyuda, please, try to
 remember at least one more." but i couldn't remember anyone else. but there
 were more than 30 dead. of that i am certain. the government and the procuracy
 don't count the people who died of fright, like sick people and old people 
 whose lives are threatened by any shock. they weren't registered as victims of
 the sumgait tragedy. and then there may be people we didn't know. so many 
 people left sumgait between march 1 and 8! most of them left for smaller towns
 in russia, and especially to the northern caucasus, to stavropol, and the 
 krasnodarsk territory. we don't have any information on them. i know that 
 there are people who set out for parts around moscow. in the periodical 
 krestyanka [woman farmer] there was a call for people who know how to milk 
 cows, and for mechanics, and drivers, and i know a whole group of people went 
 to help out. also clearly not on our list are those people who died entering
 the city, who were burned in their cars. no one knows about them, except the 
 azerbaijanis, who are hardly likely to say anything about it. and there's
 more. a great many of the people who were raped were not included in the list 
 drawn up at the procuracy. i know of three instances for sure, and i of course
 don't know them all. i'm thinking of three women whose parents chose not to 
 publicize what had happened, that is, they didn't take the matter to court, 
 they simply left. but in so doing they didn't cease being victims. one of them
 is the first cousin of my classmate kocharian. she lived in microdistrict no. 
 8, on the fifth floor. i can't tell you the building number and i don't know 
 her name. then comes the neighbor of one of my relatives, she lived in 
 microdistrict 1 near the gift shop. i don't know her name, she lives on the 
 same landing as the sumgait procurator. they beat her father, he was holding 
 the door while his daughter hid, but he couldn't hold the door forever, and 
 when she climbed over the balcony to the neighbors' they seized her by her 
 braid. like the azerbaijanis were saying, it was a very cultured mob, because 
 they didn't kill anyone, they only raped them and left. and the third one 
 . . . i don't remember who the third one was anymore.
 
 they transferred us on march 1. karina still wasn't herself. yes, we lived for
 days in the sk, in the cultural facility, and at the khimik. they lived there 
 and i lived at the city party committee because i couldn't stay with karina; 
 it was too difficult for me, but i was at peace: she had survived. i could 
 already walk, but really it was honest words that held me up. thanks to the 
 social work i did there, i managed to persevere. aleksandr mikhailovich said, 
 "if it weren't for the work i would go insane." he and i put ourselves in gear
 and took everything upon ourselves: someone had an infant and needed diapers 
 and free food, and we went to get them. the first days we bought everything, 
 although we should have received it for free. they were supposed to have been 
 dispensed free of charge, and they sold it to us. then, when we found out it 
 was free, we went to krayev. at the time, fortunately, you could still drop by
 to see him like a neighbor, all the more so since everything was still clearly
 visible on our faces. krayev sent a captain down and he resolved the issue.
 
 on march 2 they sent two investigators to see us: andrei shirokov and vladimir
 fedorovich bibishev. the way it worked out, in our family they had considered 
 only karina and me victims, maybe because she and i wound up in the hospital.
 mother and father are considered witnesses, but not victims.
 
 shirokov was involved with karina's case, and bibishev, with mine. after i 
 told him everything, he and i planned to sit down with the identikit and
 record everyone i could remember while everything was still fresh in my mind. 
 we didn't work with the identikit until the very last day because the
 conditions weren't there. the investigative group worked slowly and did poor 
 quality work solely because the situation wasn't conducive to working: there 
 weren't enough automobiles, especially during the time when there was a 
 curfew, and there were no typewriters for typing transcripts, and no still or 
 video cameras. i think that this was done on purpose. we're not so poor that 
 we can't supply our investigators with all that stuff. it was done especially 
 to draw out the investigation, all the more so since the local authorities saw
 that the armenians were leaving at the speed of light, never to return to 
 sumgait. and the armenians had a lot to say i came to an agreement with 
 bibishev, i told him myself, "don't you worry, if it takes us a month or two 
 months, i'll be here. i'm not afraid, i looked death in the eyes five times in
 those two days, i'll help you conduct the investigation."
 
 he and i worked together a great deal, and i used this to shelter karina, i
 gave them so much to do that for a while they didn't have the time to get to
 her, so that she would at least have a week or two to get back to being her-
 self. she was having difficulty breathing so we looked for a doctor to take x-
 rays. she couldn't eat or drink for nine days, she was nauseous. i didn't eat
 and drank virtually nothing for five days. then, on the fifth day, when we
 were in baku already, the investigator told me, "how long can you go on like 
 this? well fine, so you don't want to eat, you don't love yourself, you're
 not taking care of yourself, but you gave your word that you would see this
 investigation through. we need you." then i started eating, because in fact i
 was exhausted. it wasn't enough that i kept seeing those faces in our apart-
 ment in my mind, every day i went to the investigative solitary confinement
 cells and prisons. i don't know . . . we were just everywhere! probably in
 every prison in the city of baku and in all the solitary confinement cells of
 sumgait. at that time they had even turned the drunk tank into solitary 
 confinement.
 
 thus far i have identified 31 of the people who were in our apartment. mamma 
 identified three, and karina, two. the total is 36. marina didn't identify 
 anyone, she remembers the faces of two or three, but they weren't among the 
 photographs of those detained. i told of the neighbor i recognized. the one 
 who went after the axe. he still hasn't been detained, he's still on the 
 loose. he's gone, and it's not clear if he will be found or not. i don't know 
 his first or last name. i know which building he lived in and i know his 
 sisters' faces. but he's not in the city. the investigators informed me that 
 even if the investigation is closed and even if the trial is over they will 
 continue looking for him.
 
 the 31 people i identified are largely blue-collar workers from various 
 plants, without education, and of the very lowest level in every respect.
 mostly their ages range from 20 to 30 years; there was one who was 48. only
 one of them was a student. he was attending the azerbaijan petroleum and
 chemical institute in sumgait, his mother kept trying to bribe the investiga-
 tor. once, thinking that i was an employee and not a victim, she said in front
 of me "i'll set you up a restaurant worth 500 rubles and give you 600 in cash
 simply for keeping him out of armenia," that is, to keep him from landing in
 a prison on armenian soil. they're all terribly afraid of that, because if the
 investigator is talking with a criminal and the criminal doesn't confess even
 though we identified him, they tell him--in order to apply psychological
 pressure--they say, "fine, don't confess, just keep silent. when you're in an
 armenian prison, when they find out who you are, they'll take care of you
 in short order." that somehow gets to them. many give in and start to talk.
 
 the investigators and i were in our apartment and videotaped the entire
 pogrom of our apartment, as an investigative experiment. it was only then
 that i saw the way they had left our apartment. even without knowing who was 
 in our apartment, you could guess. they stole, for example, all the money and 
 all the valuables, but didn't take a single book. they tore them up, burned 
 them, poured water on them, and hacked them with axes. only the materials
 from the 27th congress of the communist party of the soviet union and james 
 fenimore cooper's last of the mohigans. oh yes, lunch was ready, we were 
 boiling a chicken, and there were lemons for tea on the table. after they had 
 been in our apartment, both the chicken and the lemons were gone. that's 
 enough to tell you what kind of people were in our apartment, people who don't
 even know anything about books. they didn't take a single book, but they did 
 take worn clothing, food, and even the cheapest of the cheap, worn-out 
 slippers.
 
 of those whom i identified, four were kafan azerbaijanis living in sumgait. 
 basically, the group that went seeking "revenge"--let's use their word for 
 it--was joined by people seeking easy gain and thrill-seekers. i talked with 
 one of them. he had gray eyes, and somehow against the back-drop of all that 
 black i remembered him specifically because of his of his eyes. besides taking
 part in the pogrom of our apartment, he was also involved in the murder of 
 tamara mekhtiyeva from building 16. she was an older armenian who had recently
 arrived from georgia, she lived alone and did not have anyone in sumgait. i 
 don't know why she had a last name like that, maybe she was married to an 
 azerbaijani. i had laid eyes on this woman only once or twice, and know 
 nothing about her. i do know that they murdered her in her apartment with an 
 axe. murdering her wasn't enough for them. they hacked her into pieces and 
 threw them into the tub with water.
 
 i remember another guy really well too, he was also rather fair-skinned. you 
 know, all the people who were in our apartment were darker than dark, both 
 their hair and their skin. and in contrast with them, in addition to the grey-
 eyed one, i remember this one fellow, the one l took to be a lezgin. i 
 identified him. as it turned out he was eduard robertovich grigorian, born
 in the city of sumgait, and he had been convicted twice. one of our own. how 
 did i remember him? the name rita was tattooed on his left or right hand. i 
 kept thinking, is that rita or "puma," which it would be if you read the word 
 as latin characters instead of cyrillic, because the cyrillic "t" was the one 
 that looks like a latin "m." when they led him in he sat with his hands behind
 his back. this was at the confrontation. he swore on every holy book, tried to
 put in an armenian word here and there to try and spark my compassion, and 
 told me that i was making a mistake, and called me "dear sister." he said, 
 "you're wrong, how could i, an armenian, raise my hand against my own, an 
 armenian," and so on. he spoke so convincingly that even the investigator 
 asked me, "lyuda, are you sure it was he?" i told him, "i'll tell you one more
 identifying mark. if i'm wrong i shall apologize and say i was mistaken. the 
 name rita is tattooed on his left or right hand." he went rigid and became 
 pale. they told him, "put your hands on the table." he put his hands on the
 table with the palms up. i said, "now turn your hands over," but he didn't 
 turn his hands over. now this infuriated me. if he had from the very start
 acknowledged his guilt and said that he hadn't wanted to do it, that they 
 forced him or something else, i would have treated him somewhat differently.
 but he insolently stuck to his story, "no, i did not do anything, it wasn't 
 me." when they turned his hands over the name rita was in fact tattooed on his
 hand. his face distorted and he whispered something wicked. i immediately flew
 into a rage. there was an ashtray on the table, a really heavy one, made out 
 of granite or something, very large, and it had ashes and butts in it. 
 catching myself quite by surprise, i hurled that ashtray at him. but he ducked
 and the ashtray hit the wall, and ashes and butts rained down on his head and 
 back. and he smiled. when he smiled it provoked me further. i don't know how, 
 but i jumped over the table between us and started either pounding him or 
 strangling him; i no longer remember which. when i jumped i caught the 
 microphone cord. the investigator was there, tolya . . .i no longer recall his
 last name, and he says, "lyudochka, it's a japanese microphone! please . . .
 " and shut off all the equipment on the spot, it was all being video taped. 
 they took him away. i stayed, and they talked to me a little to calm me down, 
 because we needed to go on working, i only remember tolya telling me, "you're 
 some actress! what a performance!" i said, "tolya, honestly . . . " beforehand
 they would always tell me, "lyuda, more emotion. you speak as calmly as if 
 nothing had happened to you." i say, "i don't have any more strength or 
 emotion. all my emotions are behind me now, i no longer have the strength 
 . . . i don't have the strength to do anything." and he says, "lyuda, how were
 you able to do that?" and when i returned to normal, drinking tea and watching
 the tape, i said, "can i really have jumped over that table? i never jumped 
 that high in gym class."
 
 so you could say the gang that took over our apartment was international. of 
 the 36 we identified there was an armenian, a russian, vadim vorobyev, who 
 beat mamma, and 34 azerbaijanis.
 
 at the second meeting with grigorian, when he had completely confessed his 
 guilt, he told of how on february 27 the azerbaijanis had come knocking. among
 them were guys--if you can call them guys--he knew from prison. they said, 
 "tomorrow we're going after the armenians. meet us at the bus station at three
 o'clock." he said, "no, i'm not coming." they told him, "if you don't come 
 we'll kill you." he said, "alright, i'll come." and he went.
 
 they also went to visit my classmate from our microdistrict, kamo pogosian. he
 had also been in prison; i think that together they had either stolen a 
 motorcycle or dismantled one to get some parts they needed. they called him 
 out of his apartment and told him the same thing: "tomorrow we're going to get
 the armenians. be there." he said, "no." they pulled a knife on him. he said, 
 "i'm not going all the same." and in the courtyard on the 27th they stabbed 
 him several times, in the stomach. he was taken to the hospital. i know he was
 in the hospital in baku, in the republic hospital. if we had known about that 
 we would have had some idea of what was to come on the 28th.
 
 i'll return to grigorian, what he did in our apartment. i remember that he
 beat me along with all the rest. he spoke azerbaijani extremely well. but he
 was very fair-skinned, maybe that led me to think that they had it out for
 him, too. but later it was proved that he took part in the beating and burning
 of shagen sargisian. i don't know if he participated in the rapes in our 
 apartment; i didn't see, i don't remember. but the people who were in our 
 apartment who didn't yet know that he was an armenian said that he did. i 
 don't know if he confessed or not, and i myself don't recall because i blacked
 out very often. but i think that he didn't participate in the rape of karina
 because he was in the apartment the whole time. when they carried her into the
 courtyard, he remained in the apartment.
 
 at one point i was talking with an acquaintance about edik grigorian. from her
 i learned that his wife was a dressmaker, his mother is russian, he doesn't 
 have a father, and that he's been convicted twice. well this will be his third
 and, i hope, last sentence. he beat his wife, she was eternally coming to work
 with bruises. his wife was an armenian by the name of rita.
 
 the others who were detained . . . well they're little beasts. you really can't
 call them beasts, they're just little beasts. they were robots carrying out
 someone else's will, because at the investigation they all said, "i don't 
 understand how i could have done that, i was out of my head." but we know that
 they were won around to it and prepared for it, that's why they did it. in the
 name of allah, in the name of the koran, in the name of propagating islam--
 that's holy to them--that's why they did everything they were commanded to do.
 because i saw they didn't have minds of their own, i'm not talking about their
 level of cultural sophistication or any higher values. no education, they
 work, have a slew of children without the means to raise them properly, they 
 crowd them in, like at the temporary housing, and apparently, they were 
 promised that if they slaughtered the armenians they would receive apartments.
 so off they went. many of them explained their participation saying, "they 
 promised us apartments."
 
 among them was one who genuinely repented. i am sure that he repented from the
 heart and that he just despised himself after the incident. he worked at a 
 children's home, an azerbaijani, he has two children, and his wife works at 
 the children's home too. everything that they acquired, everything that they 
 have they earned by their own labor, and wasn't inherited from parents or 
 grandparents. and he said, "i didn't need anything i just don't know . . . how
 i ended up in that; it was like some hand was guiding me. i had no will of my 
 own, i had no strength, no masculine dignity, nothing." and the whole time i
 kept repeating, "now you imagine that someone did the same to your young wife 
 right before your own eyes." he sat there and just wailed.
 
 but that leader in the eskimo dogskin coat was not detained. he performed a 
 marvelous disappearing act, but i think that they'll get onto him, they just 
 have to work a little, because that vadim, that boy, according to his
 grandfather, is in touch with the young person who taught him what to do, how 
 to cover his tracks. he was constantly exchanging jackets with other boys he 
 knew and those he didn't, either, and other things as well, and changed 
 himself like a chameleon so they wouldn't get onto him, but he was detained.
 
 that one in the eskimo dogskin coat was at the gambarians' after aleksandr 
 gambarian was murdered. he came in and said, "let's go, enough, you've spilled
 enough blood here."
 
 maybe karina doesn't know this but the reason they didn't finish her off was 
 that they were hoping to take her home with them. i heard this from aunt tanya
 and her sons, the kasumovs, who were in the courtyard near the entryway. they 
 liked her very much, and they had decided to take her to home with them. when 
 karina came to at one point--she doesn't remember this yet, this the neighbors 
 old me--and she saw that there was no one around her, she started crawling to 
 the entryway. they saw that she was still alive and came back, they were 
 already at the third entryway, on their way to the gambarians'. they came back
 and started beating her to finish her. if she had not come to she would have 
 sustained lesser bodily injuries, they would have beat her less. an older 
 woman from our building, aunt nazan, an azerbaijani, all but lay on top of 
 karina, crying and pleading that they leave her alone, but they flung her off.
 the woman's grown sons were right nearby; they picked her up in their hands 
 and led her home. she howled and cried out loudly and swore: god is on earth, 
 he sees everything, and he won't forgive this.
 
 there was another woman, too, aunt fatima, a sick, aging woman from the first 
 floor, she's already retired. mountain dwellers, and azerbaijanis, too, have a
 custom: if men are fighting, they throw a scarf under their feet to stop them.
 but they trampled her scarf and sent her home. to trample a scarf is 
 tantamount to trampling a woman's honor.
 
 now that the investigation is going on, now that a lot is behind us and we 
 have gotten back to being ourselves a little, i think about how could these 
 events that are now called the sumgait tragedy happen? how did they come 
 about? how did it start? could it have been avoided? well, it's clear that 
 without a signal, without permission from the top leadership, it would not 
 have happened. all the same, i'm not afraid to say this, the azerbaijanis,
 let other worthy people take no offense, the better representatives of their 
 nations, let them take no offense, but the azerbaijanis in their majority are 
 a people who are kept in line only by fear of the law, fear of retribution for
 what they have done. and when the law said that they could do all that, like
 unleashed dogs who were afraid they wouldn't have time to do everything, they 
 threw themselves from one thing to the next so as to be able to get more done,
 to snatch a bit more. the smell of the danger was already in the air on
 february 27. you could tell that something was going to happen. and everyone 
 who had figured it out took steps to avoid running into those gangs. many left
 for their dachas, got plane tickets for the other end of the country, just got
 as far away as their legs would carry them.
 
 february 27 was a saturday. i was teaching my third class. the director came 
 into my classroom and said that i should let the children out, that there had 
 been a call from the city party committee asking that all teachers gather for 
 a meeting at lenin square. well, i excused the children, and there were few 
 teachers left at school, altogether three women, the director, and six or 
 seven men. the rest had already gone home. we got to lenin square and there 
 were a great many people there. this was around five-thirty or six in the 
 evening, no later. they were saying all kinds of rubbish up on the podium and 
 the crowd below was supporting them stormily, roaring. they spoke over the 
 microphone about what had happened in kafan a few days earlier and that the 
 driver of a bus going to some district had recently thrown a small azerbaijani
 child off the bus. the speaker affirmed that he was an eyewitness, that he had
 seen it himself..the crowd started to rage: "death to the armenians! they must
 be killed!" then a woman went up on stage. i didn't see the woman because 
 people were clinging to the podium like flies. i could only hear her. the 
 woman introduced herself as coming from kafan, and said that the armenians 
 cut her daughters' breasts off, and called, "sons, avenge my daughters!" that 
 was enough. a portion of the people on the square took off running in the 
 direction of the factories, toward the beginning of lenin street.
 
 we stood there about an hour. then the director of school 25 spoke, he gave a 
 very nationalist speech. he said, "brother muslims, kill the armenians!" this 
 he repeated every other sentence. when he said this the crowd supported him 
 stormily, whistling and shouting "karabagh!" he said, "karabagh has been our 
 territory my whole life long, karabagh is my soul. how can you tear out my 
 heart?" as though an azerbaijani would die without karabagh. "it's our 
 territory, the armenians will never see it. the armenians must be eliminated. 
 from time immemorial muslims have cleansed the land of infidel armenians, from
 time immemorial, that's the way nature created it, that every 20 to 30 years 
 the azerbaijanis should cleanse the land of filth." by filth he meant 
 armenians.
 
 i heard this. before that i hadn't been listening to the speeches closely.
 many people spoke and i stood with my back to the podium, talking shop with 
 the other teachers, and somehow it all went right by, it didn't penetrate,
 that in fact something serious was taking place. then, when one of our
 teachers said, "listen to what he's saying, listen to what idiocy he's 
 spouting," we listened. that was the speech of that director. before that we 
 listened to the woman's speech.
 
 right then in our group--there were nine of us--the mood changed, and the 
 subject of conversation and all school matters were forgotten. our director of
 studies, for whom i had great respect, he's an azerbaijani . . . before that i
 had considered him an upstanding and worthy person, if there was a need to 
 obtain leave we had asked him, he seemed like a good person. so he tells me,
 "lyuda, you know that besides you there are no armenians on the square? if 
 they find out that you're an armenian they'll tear you to pieces. should i 
 tell them you're an armenian? should i tell them you're an armenian?" when he 
 said it the first time i pretended not to hear it, and then he asked me a 
 second time. i turned to the director, khudurova, and said that it was already
 after eight, i was expected at home, and i should be leaving. she answered, 
 "no, they said that women should stay here until ten o'clock,.and men, until 
 twelve. stay here." there was a young teacher with us, her children were in 
 kindergarten and her husband worked shifts. she asked to leave: "i left my 
 children at the kindergarten." the director excused her. when she let her go i
 turned around, said, "good-bye," and left with the young teacher, the 
 azerbaijani. i didn't see them after that.
 
 when we were walking the buses weren't running, and a crowd from the rally ran
 nearby us. they had apparently gotten all fired up. it must have become too 
 much for them, and they wanted to seek vengeance immediately, so they rushed 
 off. i wasn't afraid this time because i was sure that the other teacher 
 wouldn't say that i was an armenian.
 
 to make it short, we reached home. then karina told of how they had been at 
 the movies and what had happened there. i started telling of my experience and
 again my parents didn't understand that we were in danger. we watched 
 television as usual, and didn't even imagine that tomorrow would be our last 
 day. that's how it all was.
 
 at the city party committee i met an acquaintance, we went to school together,
 zhanna, i don't remember her last name, she lives above the housewares store 
 on narimanov street. she was there with her father, for some reason she 
 doesn't have a mother. the two of them were at home alone. while her father 
 held the door she jumped from the third floor, and she was lucky that the 
 ground was wet and that there wasn't anyone behind the building when she went 
 out on the balcony, there was no one there, they were all standing near the 
 entryway. that building was also a lucky one in that there were no murders 
 there. she jumped. she jumped and didn't feel any pain in the heat of the 
 moment. a few days later i found out that she couldn't stand up, she had been 
 injured somehow. that's how people in sumgait saved their lives, their honor, 
 and their children: any way they could. 
 
 where it was possible, the armenians fought back. my father's first cousin, 
 armen m., lives in block 30. they found out by phone from one of the victims 
 what was going on in town. the armenians in that building all called one 
 another immediately and all of them armed themselves with axes, knives, even 
 with muskets and went up to the roof. they took their infants with them, and 
 their old women who had been in bed for god knows how many months, they got 
 them right out of their beds and took everyone upstairs. they hooked 
 electricity up to the trap door to the roof and waited, ready to fight. then 
 they took the daughter of the school board director hostage, she's an 
 azerbaijani who lived in their building. they called the school board director
 and told her that if she didn't help them, the 17 armenians on the roof, to 
 escape alive and unharmed, she'd never see her daughter again. i'm sure, of 
 course, that armenians would never lay a hand on a woman, it was just the only
 thing that could have saved them at the time. she called the police. the 
 armenians made a deal with the local police to go into town. two armored 
 personnel carriers and soldiers were summoned they surrounded the entryway and
 led everyone down from the roof, and off to the side from the armored 
 personnel carriers was a crowd that was on its way to the building at that 
 very moment, into block 30. that's how they defended themselves.
 
 i heard that our neighbors, roman and sasha gambarian, resisted. they're big, 
 strong guys. their father was killed. and i heard that the brothers put up a 
 strong defense and lost their father, but were able to save their mother.
 
 one of the neighbors told me that after it happened, when they were looking 
 for the criminals on march 1 to 2 and detaining everyone they suspected, 
 people hid people in our entryway, maybe people who were injured or perhaps 
 dead. the neighbors themselves were afraid to go there, and when they went 
 with the soldiers into our basement they are supposed to have found 
 azerbaijani corpses. i don't know how many. even if they had been wounded and 
 put down there, after two days they would have died from loss of blood or 
 infection--that basement was filled with water. i heard this from the 
 neighbors. and later when i was talking with the investigators the subject 
 came up and they confirmed it. i know, too, that for several hours the 
 basement was used to store objects stolen from our apartment. and our neighbor
 carried out our carpet, along with the rest: he stole it for himself, posing 
 as one of the criminals. everyone was taking his own share, and the neighbor 
 took his, too, and carried it home. and when we came back, when everything 
 seemed to have calmed down, he returned it, saying that it was the only thing 
 of ours he had managed to "save."
 
 raya's husband and father defended themselves. the trdatovs defended 
 themselves, and so did other armenian families. to be sure there were
 azerbaijani victims, although we'll never hear anything about them. for some 
 reason our government doesn't want to say that the armenians were not just 
 victims, but that they defended the honor of their sisters and mothers, too. 
 in the tv show "pozitsiya" [viewpoint] a military man, an officer, said that 
 the armenians did virtually nothing to defend themselves. but that's not 
 important, the truth will come out regardless.
 
 so that's the price we paid those three days. for three days our courage, our 
 bravery, and our humanity was tested. it was those three days, and not the 
 years and dozens of years we had lived before them, that showed what we've 
 become, what we grew up to be. those three days showed who was who.
 
 on that i will conclude my narrative on the sumgait tragedy. it should be said
 that it's not over yet, the trials are still ahead of us, and the punishments
 received by those who so violated us, who wanted to make us into nonhumans 
 will depend on our position and on the work of the investigators, the 
 procuracy, and literally of every person who lent his hand to the investiga-
 tion. that's the price we paid to live in armenia, to not fear going out on 
 the street at night, to not be afraid to say we're armenians, and to not fear
 speaking our native tongue.
 
    october 15,1988
    yerevan
 
 			- - - reference for #008 - - -
 
 [1] _the sumgait tragedy; pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan,
     volume i, eyewitness accounts_, edited by samuel shahmuradian, forward by
     yelena bonner, 1990, published by aristide d. caratzas, ny, pages 118-145
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 