
 in article <2bdd9dfc.13587@news.service.uci.edu> tim clock writes:
  
 [tc] do you, as i do, agree that this (sort) of "peace process" is needed?
 [tc] what about the particular points mentioned in the article? is what
 [tc] israel is (supposedly) going to propose "good"? does it go too far?
 [tc] not far enough?
 
 [tc] if you don't agree that a "peace process" is needed, what is?
 
 i personally think that a peace process is needed, since only through
 negotiations will the future generations be able to live in stability.
 unfortunately not all think like this, we have cases like:
 	anas omran, hamza saleh, jle, mohammed reza, mehmed abu-abed, 
 anwar mohammed and others who think that jihad is the only solution. 
 
 i wish that people (including myself) would have more objective views like tim,
 basil and shai for example and put the rhetoric aside and start discussing
 "substance".
 
 my view is that israel has made more gestures towards its arab foes than the
 opposite. what have the sysrians given to us or proposed? what have the
 palestinians proposed? if the palestinians would just revoke or rewrite their 
 charter, or just condemn acts of palestinian violence that would be a good
 start.
 the palestinians have all to gain from these negotiations. its seems though
 that they are not strong enough to make decisions on their own and are
 plagued by internal strife, that is why we are not getting anywhere.
 fundamentalism is slowly taking over in the territories, then it will be
 too late to discuss issues with the palestinians since they will only
 vow for the destruction of israel.
 arabs  must take example on egypt. egypt came to the bargaining table,
 got what it wanted from israel and there is now peace and cooperation
 between the two countries. 
 the tougher you play ball with israel the tougher israel gets.
 
 tsiel
 
 
 tsiel
 -- 
 ----8<--------------------------------------------------------------->8------
 tsiel:ohayon@jcpl.co.jp	   | if you do not receive this e-mail, please let me
 employer may not have same | know as soon as possible, if possible.
 opinions, if any !         | two percent of zero is almost nothing.
 