
 
 found this in soc.culture.pakistan
 might be of interest..... am posting it without the permission of the original poster.
 hope he/she doesnt mind.
 
 
 by lance gay, scripps-howard news service
  
 sarajevo, bosnia-herzegovina -- in this land of historic hatreds, a tiny
 jewish community is braving serbian shells to repay a 50-year-old debt to
 muslims who saved jews from the holocaust.
  
 ivica ceresnjes, president of the jewish community of sarajevo, says he
 and about 1,000 other jews chose to remain in sarajevo, rather than leave
 for israel, to keep a feeding center in the medieval old town district
 running.
  
 ceresnjes said that was partly in gratitude to the muslims who hid jews during
 the nazi occupation and partly to keep intact the centuries-old presence of 
 jews living in sarajevo.
  
 ``some with guns are defending bosnia, but i fight in bosnia by keeping 
 people alive,'' ceresnjes said.
  
 as a student of balkan history, ceresnjes said he saw this war coming and 
 had ready plans to evacuate children and the elderly. a year before the war
 erupted here last april, ceresnjes said the jewish center began
 stockpiling supplies, ensuring everyone had passports and arranging for
 places in israel and europe for the evacuees.
  
 they were so well prepared, he said, that only five days after the
 shooting began the first plane left. of about 2,000 jews in bosnia-
 herzegovina, he estimates half have left. many of those who stayed behind
 work in sarajevo's downtown synagogue, which has been turned into a
 wartime feeding center that has so far given away 380,000 meals.
  
 the center, which has been shelled several times along with most of
 sarajevo, also runs a radio station, mail center and distributes food
 packages sent by jewish organizations around the world.
  
 while muslims and jews are fighting each other in the mideast, jews here
 say there's a long tradition of cooperation, inter-marriage and
 tolerance between the two communities in sarajevo that goes back to
 centuries of turkish occupation.
  
 sarajevo's jews trace their ancestry back to their expulsion from roman
 catholic spain in 1492. the community numbered more than 14,000 before
 world war ii. but only 10% survived the holocaust -- which was carried out
 by the pro-nazi croatian ustache in yugoslavia. many of the survivors were
 hidden by muslim families in mostar.
  
 
 -- 
 sharon machlis gartenberg
 framingham, ma  usa
 e-mail: sharon@world.std.com
 
 
 ----------------------------------------
 zafar.
 
 
 
 
 tippu hassan
 
 