
      accounts of anti-armenian human right violations in azerbaijan #015
                  prelude to current events in nagorno-karabakh
 
          +-----------------------------------------------------------+
          |                                                           |
          | . . . they beat up the husband, dragged the wife outside, |
          | and stood her naked next to our burning things; her       | 
          | husband was lying at her feet on the ground. the crowd    |
          | shouted, "look at the naked armenian!" they were going to |
          | throw the poor woman into the fire...mamma wouldn't allow |
          | it but i went to the window and saw her standing there,   |
          | and they took skewers that had been heated in the fire    |
          | and stuck them into her body.                             |
          |                                                           |
          +-----------------------------------------------------------+
 
 depositions of:
 
 zinaida poghosovna hakopian
 
    born 1937
    dispatcher
    kavkazenergoremont electric booster station
 
    her daughters
 
 gayane (gaya) vazgenovna hakopian
    born 1970
    orderly
    sumgait municipal hospital no. 1
 
 diana vazgenovna hakopian
    born 1978
    second-year student
    sumgait secondary school no. 13
 
    residents at building 21/31, apartment 47
    microdistrict no. 3
    sumgait [azerbaijan]
 
 
 -zinaida: on march 20 we arrived in yerevan, and the next day they registered
 us at the train station and took us to the boarding house. the conditions were
 wonderful, thanks to our armenians, who received us. but it's not relaxing all
 the same. i don't know how everyone else feels about it, but for me it's 
 torture. we don't have a place to call our own. i had a two bedroom apartment 
 in sumgait, my children went to school and we lived well, in friendship. it's 
 painful that in our times, in 1988, in the soviet period, people can break 
 into our apartment and try to kill me and my children, in whom i've put all my
 efforts and my whole youth. everything was going well for us: my older 
 daughter was studying at the institute, the middle one was preparing to enter 
 medical school and was interning as an orderly, and my youngest had been sick 
 for a long time, but had returned to health. i have been though a lot in my 
 life: it's been seven years since i lost my husband, i raised my children by 
 myself. lots of women have similar fates, but there's nothing to be done about
 it. but i can't control myself when i remember what happened in sumgait on 
 february 27, 28, and 29, it was just a horror, it's indescribable.
 
 on february 27 our relative, ira, came to visit us. she's better friends with
 my oldest daughter, and so right away she asked, "where's vika?" i say,
 "vika's off in pirkuli on a trip for three days, she's supposed to come back
 tomorrow." my middle daughter, gaya, had baked a cake and we sat there talking
 and laughing, drinking tea. then gaya and diana went to walk ira home.
 
 they left and a few minutes went by; suddenly i hear noise. i raced out to
 the balcony--our balcony is right across from the bus station, we live at the
 corner of mir and druzhba streets--i look and see that there are hoards of
 people near the bus station and they're all shouting something. what they're
 shouting i can't understand. our neighbor is standing on his balcony, too. i
 ask, "nufar, what's happened?" he says, "i don't know, i can't figure it out
 either." i got scared--the kids had gone outside, and i wanted to run after
 them, but then there was a knock at the door. i open the door and it's the
 kids. "mamma," says gayane, "you'll never believe what's going on out there! 
 it's awful!" ira says, "aunt zina, they're shouting, 'karabagh! karabagh! 
 karabagh is ours!' we didn't know what was going on. they're threatening to 
 drive out the armenians and slaughter them."
 
 i called my brother, and his wife answered the phone. i said, "aunt tamara, 
 don't worry, ira is staying here with us, and we'll see her home later." i 
 couldn't shut my eyes all night long, even until morning. i was worried about
 vika. my god, what was going on, what had happened?!
 
 -gayane: that day, on the 27th, we stood on the balcony and observed what was 
 happening, although mamma wouldn't allow us to watch all of it. there weren't 
 50 yards between our building and the bus station. we could see and hear 
 everything perfectly. they were stopping buses, dragging people out, leading 
 all the passengers out, looking for armenians. if they found an armenian on 
 the bus, then it started . . .i don't know what to call it . . .
 
 -zinaida: it's called slaughter.
 
 -gayane: the mob would descend on people and beat them. i don't know if they 
 were killing them or not, but when they left them, they lay still, not moving,
 as though nothing was left of them. one person was lying there and they 
 started dragging him. the police were standing right there, to the side, not 
 doing anything, they didn't take any steps to calm that mob.
 
 it was awful to stand there and watch it all from the balcony. and you 
 couldn't go anywhere, somehow . . . you wanted to be able to see everything
 so as to tell of it later. we wanted to leave sumgait that day. what kept us
 was the idea that we live in the soviet union, and that something would be
 done about it. where in the world was our government?!
 
 -zinaida: we couldn't leave town, of course, because our older daughter wasn't
 home. and at the same time i was terrified for gaya and diana. on sunday 
 morning when i went to see ira home, our neighbor said, "zin', you know they 
 went into valodya's house and smashed everything he had. they murdered his 
 father and two sons." valodya is our neighbor, he's an armenian, he lives on 
 the first floor. i think, my god, what is happening?! and in broad daylight!
 
 i saw ira home and when on the way back i came across a mob shouting "slay the
 armenians! karabagh is ours!" this was at 12 o'clock in the afternoon. on the 
 way i stopped into a bread store and the saleswoman says, "they beat our store
 manager, they thought he was an armenian and they beat him, but he was an 
 azerbaijani." and i asked, "did they kill him?" she says, "no, he's in serious
 condition." i left there and started to walk home on that same street, but the
 mob started moving in my direction. i turned off the street and went down the 
 little way that goes toward the sputnik store. there i met another crowd, but 
 these weren't bandits, these were our people from sumgait. i was so frightened
 that i walked without knowing where was going, i couldn't feel my legs or the 
 ground under my feet. i was walking and there was a boy standing before my 
 eyes. this was on the 27th, around evening time. he ran under our balcony, and
 the mob surged toward him shouting, "he's an armenian, get him!" he wore a 
 black coat. they grabbed him, that boy, near the bus stop, i saw it. they 
 grabbed him by the legs and struck his head on the asphalt.
 
 i made it home but i just couldn't calm down. my oldest daughter was in my 
 thoughts. i was thinking, my daughter's coming home now, they'll stop her bus 
 and she'll be gone. there's no police, no protection, nothing. it's like they 
 had all died, there's no one, nothing, no authorities whatsoever. i can't even
 find the words for it! i look and see an ikarus arriving. before going to the 
 bus station they stop near our place, across from the kosmos movie theater. so
 this ikarus stops  there and the gang is yelling, the azerbaijanis are running
 toward it yelling, "armenians out!" and i see them take the armenians and beat
 them, killing them. i can't watch it any more. it was a nightmare. i just 
 couldn't watch it. but gaya was standing there watching it, and i scolded her.
 she says, "mamma, i have to see it, i have to know what's happening, i have to
 see it with my own eyes so i can tell our people of it later. so our children 
 will know."
 
 gayane: we saw a great deal on the 27th. they caught no less than 20 people
 before my eyes. i can't say for sure if they killed them or not . . .
 
 -zinaida: there were too many people there, the mob was too big. you couldn't 
 make anything out. but i saw that boy in the black coat with my own eyes. he
 was 18 or 19 years old.
 
 -gayane: i think he was older, probably, about 22. a tall fellow, a big guy, 
 in a coat. he was walking quickly, but when they shouted that he was an
 armenian, he tore off running. and the mob went after him. they caught him 
 right under our balcony. i don't know. i don't think there could have been 
 much left of him after that. you can imagine what happens when a crowd attacks
 one person. it was a mob, big, angry, and featureless. you know, there was a 
 similarity in the way they were dressed, mostly they were wearing long black 
 coats. you couldn't even tell them apart, they were all wearing black and they
 all looked alike.
 
 -zinaida: when they picked up that boy and struck him against the asphalt and 
 he cried "mamma!" i ran into the room. i couldn't watch any longer. an awful 
 lot was going on right then, in various places, it wasn't only that boy, 
 several people were being beaten up. you couldn't see all of it at once, but 
 when that boy cried "mamma!" i immediately started watching only him.
 
 -gayane: on that first day it went on from about six in the morning until
 twelve at night. at midnight they dispersed and the police took their place.
 they were scattered about in all districts. but how can you explain the fact
 that by morning, when it had already started getting light, around seven
 o'clock, our police were gone? the police disappeared and yielded their
 positions to the bandits. in the morning they started gathering at our inter-
 section again, at the bus station and at the entrance to downtown. from
 morning on all the roads and mass transit stops were covered, and by nine
 o'clock you couldn't even see the ground. there were thousands of people in
 the crowd. again they began stopping vehicles and checking for armenians.
 
 -zinaida: they had signals. i realized that when i noticed that they made a 
 cross with their arms, they crossed their arms over their heads. the cross,
 evidently, meant that the vehicle had armenians in it. they let the
 azerbaijani cars through, and they stopped the armenian ones and started
 their pogrom.
 
 -gayane: they stopped a white zhiguli and asked the driver what his 
 nationality was. he got out and said they were from baku. "but what is your
 nationality?" he says armenian. they immediately start shouting, "ermeni,
 ermeni!" and he says, "what's going on? i'm coming from baku. i don't live
 in sumgait." "doesn't matter, who cares if you're from baku or sumgait."
 anyway the crowd pounced on him and started beating him, and they dragged a 
 woman--his wife, probably--out of the car. at this point the police came and 
 took the two and led them away. then the mob started smashing the car, and 
 then burned it. the flames blazed . . . it was a horrible fire! then everyone 
 ran away, they thought the car was going to explode. about 20 minutes later 
 another car comes along, a green moskvich. they ran up shouting "ermeni! 
 ermeni!" but this time they didn't pull the people out of the car, they didn't
 beat them. maybe they burned them along with the car, because no one emerged 
 from the flames. the neighbor boy vakhit was standing on the balcony too, 
 acquaintances of his walked by below, and he asked them and they said, "yes, 
 they burned them along with the car." about two hours later a whole wedding 
 procession came by, and there was a doll on the first car. we thought they 
 were armenians, but the cars started to honk loudly. they were azerbaijanis, 
 and they were immediately allowed through.
 
 -zinaida: the driver waved his hand as if to say 'get out of the way.' the
 whole crowd parted and the procession passed through freely.
 
 -gayane: by the way, at the marriage hall, which is right in the courtyard
 of our building, there was a wedding that day. the azerbaijanis were cele-
 brating and dancing. on the streets there was grief and death, people were
 being killed, and people were celebrating the whole time.
 
 -zinaida: before the apartment itself was attacked i asked gaya to call and 
 find out when the tourist bus was supposed to arrive. she went to her 
 girlfriend's in the building, she lives in the first entryway, on the third 
 floor. gaya came back and said, "mamma, the bus is supposed to come around
 eight, after eight." you can imagine what i was feeling, how hard it was:
 vika knew nothing about what was happening and was coming to meet her death. 
 then i heard shouting. i raced to the window and see that the belongings of 
 our neighbors from the second entryway are being thrown outdoors. they were 
 thrashing about with the pillows and the feathers were lying like snow. i 
 started to cry. i am walking around the room, crying, wailing: vika's not 
 here, what will come of her . . . gaya, of course, was consoling me: "mamma, 
 nothing will happen to her, don't worry, calm down, she's in good company, 
 they'll look out for her."
 
 diana: i saw the green car burn. the car was burning when we went out onto the
 balcony. gaya pushed me away, telling me to get off the balcony. i left. then 
 they came up to the balcony and asked if there were any armenians here.
 
 -zinaida: you're right, i forgot about that, that was on the 27th.
 
 diana: there's a small, grassy area in front of our balcony; there are trees
 planted there. the mob asked if there were any armenians in the building.
 all the neighbors said, no, there are no armenians here. there weren't a lot
 of armenians in our building, but there weren't just a few armenian families, 
 either.
 
 -gayane: they fell upon the apartments on the 28th. there were terribly many 
 of them. our courtyard is huge, and it was completely filled with them.
 
 -zinaida: katusev had made an appearance on television earlier. he said that 
 two people, azerbaijanis, had been killed in karabagh. and when he said that 
 . . . you know how bees sound, have you heard how they buzz? it was like the 
 buzzing of millions of bees . . . and with this buzzing they flew into our 
 courtyard, howling and shouting. i don't know how to describe it. by this 
 point we were afraid to watch from the balcony, but when i looked out of the 
 bedroom window--the znaniye bookstore is down there, and armenians live on the 
 second and fourth floors--i saw their things being thrown out the windows. i 
 realized that they would be upon us any minute. i shouted to gayane, "gaya, 
 hide the gold." that's honestly what i told my child. i grabbed diana. i 
 didn't know what to do! vika still wasn't home, and it was already getting 
 dark. i was afraid to look at the time because i was already horrified as it 
 was.
 
 -gayane: just in case, we changed the television channel from the moscow 
 station to the azerbaijani one.
 
 -zinaida: and turned it up loud.
 
 -gayane: we never listened to azerbaijani music. it just didn't do much for 
 us. in all those years we almost never listened to it. but sometimes we would
 watch some entertainment show or film on azerbaijani television. and that was 
 it. and here we had it turned up full blast. so they would think we were 
 azerbaijanis.
 
 -zinaida: well you can imagine, they're slaughtering armenians, robbing them, 
 and we're listening to this concert music from baku. our azerbaijani neighbors
 suggested we do it, they knocked on the door and told gaya to turn on 
 azerbaijani music. but we already had it on anyway. turn on the lights, they 
 told us, so they will think you're not armenians. they're saying the armenians
 are afraid to turn on their lights, they're hiding.
 
 -gayane: apparently there was some kind of arrangement, because we noticed 
 that the lights were off only in armenian apartments, that is, the 
 azerbaijanis were warned, and every last one of them had their lights on.
 when we turned the lights off two of our neighbors came immediately, and
 later, another one. "turn on the lights," they told us, "please. nothing will
 happen. be calm. nothing will happen."
 
 -zinaida: "we won't allow them to come into your apartment."
 
 -gayane: we believed those people. we had never done anything bad to them.
 
   -zinaida: after the whole nightmare, about march 15, before we left for
 armenia, when i was coming into the building they were all crying. the
 azerbaijanis were crying, saying, "can it be there is no god? how could
 they raise their hands against your family? you never did anyone any harm,
 you never refused anyone anything, not in hard times, or in time of fortune,
 or in time of mourning. how could they give you away? how could they sell you 
 down the river?" they really had given us away. some of them protected us, but
 others gave us away. they sold us down the river.
 
 -gayane: i was wearing slacks that day, and when it all began i became 
 cautious for some reason and i changed my clothes. azerbaijani women don't 
 wear pants. young armenian and russian girls in sumgait wore pants, but the 
 azerbaijanis found that very strange. and i thought i better put on a skirt, 
 otherwise they won't believe me if i told them we were azerbaijanis. there was
 nothing else we could do. no other way out. i was forced to turn myself into 
 god knows who. i let my hair down, tousled it, and threw a scarf over my head.
 
 -zinaida: and she told me, "mamma, you hide. take diana and go into the other 
 room. you two look more like armenians. they'll figure out that we're 
 armenians right away." but how could i go away and leave her there?!
 
 -gayane: i went out onto the balcony. it worked out better that way. we were 
 the only armenian family in the fourth entryway. this gave us hope: we were 
 the only ones, the neighbors wouldn't let them in. they, the azerbaijanis, 
 would fear for themselves and for their children. i looked and saw someone 
 crawling up on the balcony from below, it was easy to get up onto our balcony.
 when we would lose the keys the neighbors would let up into their places and 
 we would crawl across onto our balcony and get in that way. so i turned around
 and saw a guy with a knife on our balcony. he looks at me and shouts, "what 
 nationality are you here?"
 
 -zinaida: at the same time they were knocking on the door.
 
 -gayane: "what nationality are you?" he's shouting. well at first i was
 frightened, but then i got control of myself and answered in perfect 
 azerbaijani, "you should be ashamed of yourself, asking a question like that.
 can't you see i'm an azerbaijani? if i were an armenian would i come out to 
 meet you face to face and look you in the eyes?" he looks at me and tells the
 people with him, "yes, azerbaijanis live here." from below they tell him,
 "check it out, it can't be, they have to be armenians." and he asks me again,
 "what nationality are you?" i say, "can't you see?" i started fuming. i could
 not say anything else. "you're blind, that's for sure! you can yell all you
 want, but that won't make us armenians." i hear them breaking down our
 door, and mamma went toward the door. i say, "i don't have time to deal
 with you, they're breaking down our door." 1 go to the door and ask, "who is
 it?" they answer, "open up!" i say, "wait, why are you breaking the door?
 what's going on? i'm opening up." we never locked the lower lock, it was
 broken, but now they had locked it out of fear, and i couldn't get it open. i
 say wait, i'm looking for the key. i opened the door--it was almost broken
 down already. i opened the door and they burst in. i say, "what's going on?
 why are you breaking down our door?"
 
 -zinaida: then they started climbing in from the balcony. they're shouting, 
 "why don't you open the door?" and i say, "well you've already come in the 
 balcony." then diana sees their knives, runs into the bathroom, and closes the
 door. gaya cries out, "mamma, diana ran into the bathroom!" i ran to the door 
 and forgot that we were pretending to be azerbaijanis, and said in armenian: 
 "diana, open the door!" gaya tried to calm them down, and i'm shouting with
 tears in my eyes for diana to open the door.
 
 -diana i was sitting on the couch with my doll, little red riding hood. that 
 guy climbed in from the balcony with a big knife with a yellow handle. they 
 put it up to mamma's stomach. i ran to the bathroom, opened the door, and 
 slammed it behind me. i was frightened, and started to cry. i shouted, "mamma,
 they want to kill you!" and then . . . then they started shouting, "give us 
 your passports." and gaya says, "what do you need passports for, we're 
 azerbaijanis."
 
 -gayane: i tried to convince them that we were azerbaijanis, i was trying
 everything i could, i could get on my knees and plead. i could humble myself, 
 because at that moment i was worried about other lives than just my own. to be
 honest i didn't care about anything else, as long as my little sister would 
 survive, her life and health had cost us so dearly! i tell them, "what, don't 
 you understand anything?" they started shouting, they were tremendously 
 excited, shouting with terribly loud voices, saying that in stepanakert their 
 girls were being killed, raped, and tossed around with pitchforks. why 
 shouldn't they do the same to us? i said, "who's doing all that? who is doing 
 it? some armenians! what does that have to do with us? give me the knife, i'll
 cut my own face." "now you calm down," they tell me.
 
 zinaida: i told them, "why didn't you deal with them there! there, in 
 karabakh? nothing has happened here, no one has been fighting here, not we 
 with the armenians, nor they with us. why didn't you give it right back to
 them there? what've we got to do with this?" i got confused. i had been
 saying that we were azerbaijanis, but suddenly i started speaking as though
 i were an armenian, but they didn't notice. one of them was next to me,
 with a knife at my breast. and he says to the others, "what pretty girls." he
 meant gaya and my 10-year-old diana. i was terrified. gaya started assuring 
 them that we were azerbaijanis. one guy stood in the doorway and gave us bad 
 looks.
 
 -gayane: he demanded the passports. i said, "young man, i don't have my 
 passport here." he says, "let's have the passport, we won't believe you
 without your passport." and one of them started hurriedly searching for
 documents. they turned the wardrobe in the other room upside down, took the 
 picture off the wall, and started pulling the clothes off their hooks, yelling
 and shouting, "passport! passport!" they all started yelling, there was so 
 much noise in the apartment. they were all shouting. my hair stood on end. 
 suddenly i said, "listen, my papa died, 40 days haven't passed yet, we have a 
 muslim household, we're in mourning, you should be ashamed of yourselves, 
 you've disgraced your honor." and then mamma started to cry.
 
 -zinaida: i started crying: "my husband died, 40 days haven't yet passed,
 aren't you ashamed of yourselves!" in fact my husband had died seven years
 earlier, in 1981. "we're in mourning, and you burst in here demanding docu-
 ments. the documents are at the housing office, i'm filing for my pension."
 well it seemed like they believed us. then one guy said, "they're lezgins.
 can't you see, there are no men here, only women. leave." another fellow in
 the group agreed with him, he also said that we were lezgins. but a third
 said, "no, they're armenians." well the other two convinced him, i don t know 
 how, and all the rest of them listened to them too. there were about 50 of 
 them, if not more, all in our three-room apartment, even the entryway was 
 filled. they started leaving. yes, we're lezgins, we're lezgins." they started
 leaving, and one of them took our tape recorder with him. and the one who had 
 first called us lezgins says, "leave that, what are you doing?" they seemed to
 obey that guy.
 
 -gayane: he was tall, wearing baggy jeans and a coat.
 
 -zinaida: with a little moustache, i think.
 
 -gayane: no, he didn't have a moustache, he was tall with brown hair, he 
 wasn't a bad-looking sort. he didn't have anything in his hands.
 
 -zinaida: he stood at the threshold.
 
 -gayane: yes, he didn't look like a bad guy, and you know, his face seemed 
 familiar to me. i had seen him somewhere. and more than once. but i can't 
 remember where. when he came in i was stupefied, i had a premonition that he 
 wouldn't be able to remain indifferent. when he said that we were lezgins and 
 that they should leave, such gladness started to glow inside of me. hope. they
 continued to argue on their way out. some said, "they're armenians all the 
 same." and that fellow answered, "even if they are armenians, it's shameful,
 the father died, they're mourning, there's nothing but women in the house, 
 there's no men. we should stay out of the apartment." "what do you mean, stay 
 out? we can go in there!" and he said, "no, we should stay out, they're 
 lezgins, we're leaving here." the three of them protected us.
 
    -zinaida: no, the two of them. the one in the short coat and the one in the
 grey suit, who stood at the threshold, about 19 or 20 years old. well they
 were all young really. the two of them defended us.
 
 -diana: three, three!
 
 -zinaida: do you remember the third one, diana?
 
 -diana: yes, he was wearing dark clothes.
 
 -gayane: the third one was the one who came back. he wore a long brown coat.
 
 -diana: he wore a long, darkish brown coat, and his hair was dark too. when 
 they left, they told him downstairs that those women were armenians, and ran 
 back and said that they were going to kill us.
 
 -zinaida: they had all left, and we had started to calm down a little, and i
 closed the door. and then there is a knock. i told gaya, "take diana and go
 into the other room." my daughters went into the dining room, and i opened the
 door. there was a guy there who said, "run, hide! they're coming to kill you 
 now!" we ran up to the third floor. we had some good neighbors up there,
 azerbaijanis. i sent the kids and stood there alone, not knowing what to do. 
 i was so far gone . . . out of a whole room i couldn't even think of anything 
 to take. i even forgot to take my work documents; at the time i had been 
 preparing a report to send to baku, and the documents were at home. i couldn't
 see anything . . . i could only see vika, my older daughter. i sent gaya and 
 diana upstairs, and stood there asking that fellow, "should i close the door 
 and leave everything like this?" he says, "what do you mean, door? get out of 
 here, they're coming to kill you! what are you standing there for?" and i ran 
 after the children.
 
 -gayane: we barely had time to get up to the third floor when they burst into 
 our apartment and started shouting, "where are the armenians?" we were already
 at the neighbors'. they had an infant at the time, and the neighbor said, 
 "don't you worry, i'm not letting anyone in this apartment no matter what."
 
 -zinaida: on the third floor there i started asking the folks, our neighbors,
 to go meet vika. the bus was due to arrive at eight o'clock. i dissolved in
 tears, gaya was soothing me, diana was next to us, she was crying too, and i'm
 already thinking that i've lost my older daughter, but deep in my heart i 
 still believe she's alive . . . and my tears choked me. i was going out of my
 mind. but no one could leave the building, the courtyard was packed with
 people, swarming with them. from the balcony the neighbor in whose apartment 
 we were hiding asked the bandits, "where are those armenians, the ones who 
 were at home? where did they make off to?" they told him they didn't know. 
 they asked him where he lived. he answered, "can't you see, on the third 
 floor." he asked them specially to divert attention from his own apartment. we
 heard them taking free reign of our apartment, and they threw our color 
 television off the balcony and it exploded.
 
 -gayane: mamma was crying the whole time. she fell into a faint and we brought
 her around and held her back, because the whole time she kept making for the 
 door to go outside, alternately raving and sobbing, shouting, and calling 
 vika. she didn't notice us, probably because we were next to her. her thoughts
 were only on vika. the neighbors who were hiding us were calming her too, 
 offering tea.
 
 -zinaida: we are very grateful to them. thanks to them my children and i are
 alive, well, and unharmed. when they were throwing our belongings out and 
 burning them--the beds, the pillows, and the chairs--our neighbor came to us 
 and said, "how lucky you are that it's not you standing there naked, but some 
 other woman instead. you're from our part of the building you lost your 
 husband, you have children, thank god you're not in her position, we wouldn't 
 have been able to take it. i don't know what i would do." he of course 
 wouldn't have done anything, he was just trying to calm us down. in the yard 
 they were torturing our neighbors, fellow armenians they lived on the fifth 
 floor, in the third entryway. a married couple, vanya and nina, and their 
 three children. their last name is v. they hid their two daughters, and stayed
 with their son to defend themselves, they even got boiling water ready, and an
 axe, and held them off for a long time, but the . . . they beat up the 
 husband, dragged the wife outside, and stood her naked next to our burning 
 things; her husband was lying at her feet on the ground. the crowd shouted, 
 "look at the naked armenian!" they were going to throw the poor woman into the
 fire. the neighbors came out, an azerbaijani woman threw her a scarf, and she 
 covered herself with it, and the neighbors led her off to their apartment. 
 all the neighbors saw and heard it . . .
 
 -gayane: mamma wouldn't allow it but i went to the window and saw her standing
 there, and they took skewers that had been heated in the fire and stuck them 
 into her body. our neighbor, who lived in the same entryway as nina--she 
 lives with us in the same boarding house now--saw what they had done, nina 
 showed her, from her knees up, almost up to her neck, her whole body was 
 covered, riddled, with wounds.
 
 -zinaida: in the morning, during the night of the 29th, rather, after one
 o'clock, two buses approached the station. i wanted to run out. by then i
 didn't care any more if i lived or died, but gayane wouldn't let me go, and
 the neighbors said that i would bring disaster to them and they would be
 slain along with their children. gaya was crying and said that i forgot about
 them, my other children, but i could only think of vika. i imagined her torn
 to pieces, i'm a mother, and they're just children, they don't understand i
 would have jumped off the balcony and run to the soldiers for help. i was
 going to do it but gayane wouldn't let me: "mamma, please! mamma, i beg of 
 you!" the neighbors were sleeping and gayane woke them with her cries. so we 
 held on that way till morning.
 
 on the morning of the 29th i told our neighbor i was going to go downstairs to
 our apartment, maybe vika was lying there, murdered. he told me he would go 
 himself. he was gone for about five minutes, but it seemed like an eternity to
 me. he returned and said there was no one there, nothing. i went down too, 
 stole down like a mouse, and slipped in everything was thrown all about. i 
 didn't go to the soldiers because the armored personnel carriers were far 
 away, farther than the bus station. i began looking for the briefcase with my 
 work in it. i was miserable because of my daughter, and at the same time 
 because of my work. my documents were there, my travel papers--i worked in the
 transport division -- and my trip sheets.
 
 -gayane: mamma is a very responsible person, she was always ready to work 
 around the clock to do her job.
 
 -zinaida: i look around and i can't find the briefcase. i didn't care about 
 the fact that everything had been stolen out of all three of my rooms, that
 everything was smashed, and the furniture was broken, i worried about that
 later, but at first i was concerned about the lost documents. i went into the
 kitchen. my daughter had hidden some valuables in the gas stove: my ring and 
 my earrings. it was all there. five minutes passed and gayane ran in and said,
 "mamma, hurry." and diana came downstairs too. gayane found  her coat among 
 the debris, and diana found her track shoes, her coat, and some of her 
 dresses.
 
 -diana: immediately after we got back up to the neighbors they started 
 throwing things around in the apartment under us. they threw a television onto
 the asphalt, it exploded so violently it sounded like a thunderclap. then, 
 when vika wasn't there, i wouldn't eat, and they forced me, but i couldn't 
 eat. because i loved vika terribly and she and i had always gone to the movies
 and gone for walks in the park. when we went into our apartment the next day 
 and everything was broken, right away i started looking for my dolls and my 
 books, but i didn't see anything. when we went back upstairs i managed to take
 two cups from my tea service, and gaya took vika's suit and one of her own 
 dresses. my italian boots were gone, my brown coat, it was beautiful, there 
 wasn't a one of my beautiful dolls, and my giant lion was gone too, the one 
 that had been on top of the television. he was very large and very handsome. 
 i had two satchels, one for first grade and the other for second grade, one 
 was yellow-green with a boy and a girl on it, they're playing a drum and a 
 violin, and there is a dog sitting there closing its ears, and on the other 
 one were the letters a, b, c, d, e and the numbers 4+5, two girls and a boy 
 with their mouths open like they are singing. they were beautiful satchels. 
 they were gone too. i had many books, i collected them, they were in the 
 bedside tables. and a boy had given me a little apron and a headband for my 
 birthday, they weren't around either. and i had some big books, fat ones, and 
 they disappeared, only one was left, the malachite box. the adventures of 
 karlson, pippi longstockings, and fairy tales of the world were left. all the 
 other books were gone.
 
 -zinaida: i continued searching for my briefcase, and then my supervisor
 arrived. he had waited for me until nine o'clock, but i didn't appear, and he
 thought something must have happened, so he came. he's a russian, aleksei 
 semyonovich lomakin. alik aliyev, the mechanic, came with him. when they saw 
 my wrecked apartment they were just petrified, they could not say a thing. 
 when i saw them i started crying. my azerbaijani neighbors came in. some of 
 them were crying, others were helping me pick up. i go on looking for my 
 documents and at the same time put things into the wardrobe. now that i 
 remember it it's both funny and painful: how could i have thought that i had 
 returned to my apartment and that everything had gone back to normal? 
 incidentally, later, when i went back to the apartment again those things were
 gone too. and the door was gone. after my supervisor left, in the afternoon, 
 the neighbor said that we should leave, find another refuge. "i'm afraid," he 
 said, "that someone saw you come to my apartment, and that they could kill you
 and us too. my god, where could i go it was daytime and those . . . i don't 
 even know what to call them, the bandits, those marauders, those jackals, i 
 don't know what to call them, i can't find the words, they were everywhere. 
 where should i go with two girls? when i opened the door i had tears in my 
 eyes, and i was terrified . . . and he said, "go to alik's, he's an
 azerbaijani, too." and i say, "you should have said that earlier, when my 
 supervisor was here with the car, he could have taken us with him." everyone 
 feared for their own lives. what could i do? i went out into the entryway and 
 stood. and he says, "any other time i would keep you here a year, or two. but 
 right now, i'm sorry . . . " then another door opened, also on the third 
 floor. i ask the neighbor, "tayara, can we hide at your place?" she's an 
 azerbaijani too. she says, "what kind of question is that? come in!" she hid 
 us. there were many people in the courtyard, and gaya and i hid in the 
 wardrobe, and they put diana under a mattress, leaving a small opening so the 
 child could breathe. tayara said that when the bandits left she would let us 
 out, and when they came back she would hide us again.
 
 we sat in the wardrobe for about a half hour. gaya became ill, and i allowed 
 her to get out. my legs fell asleep and felt like cannons. we hadn't eaten or 
 drunk anything for so long, since the 27th, when we saw that horror--and all 
 of it just snapped in me. tayara's husband went outside, even though i begged 
 him to stay, saying there should be a man in the house. he said that he'd be 
 in the courtyard, and if anything happened his wife would signal him. she put 
 her passport and all of their documents on the table so if they suddenly came 
 in she could show them that they were an azerbaijani family. my girls went to 
 the window--and what was going on out there! i feared for my children, that 
 someone would recognize them from the street. gaya let her hair down and put 
 on a scarf so she would resemble an azerbaijani, but directly across there was
 a 9-story building, their windows were right across from us, and i shouted 
 that someone would see her and give us away on the spot. but she kept on 
 looking.
 
 -diana: i watched too.
 
 -zinaida: downstairs the bandits were fighting with the soldiers. the soldiers
 didn't shoot, they didn't have orders to. i saw them throwing rocks at
 the soldiers, they were young boys, 18- and 19-year olds, and they defended
 themselves . . . i'm a mother after all, and they were no different from my
 children. when one of the soldiers fell and his head started bleeding i had to
 stop looking, l couldn't watch anymore . . . i imagined my children in their
 shoes . . .
 
 -gayane: the troops had assumed their defense that morning and had cordoned 
 off the buildings, and some of the soldiers surrounded the bus station, block 
 36, and our microdistrict 3. but they only cordoned them off from the outside.
 the mob fell upon the soldiers, who started to protect themselves, and the mob
 surged into the courtyard with the soldiers after it. they caught several 
 azerbaijanis and started beating them with their clubs. one fell down and they
 cracked open another's head . . .
 
 -zinaida: they show lebanon on television, and the war in afghanistan--that's just
 what it was like. like in america, how they attack demonstrations with shields
 and clubs--that's just how it was in our courtyard.
 
 -gayane: don't compare it with america, those were peaceful demonstrations, 
 but these?!
 
 -zinaida: but how could it happen here and not off somewhere in america! they 
 attacked the soldiers, hurled stones at them . . . then i thought, where's the
 tear gas that the americans use to disperse demonstrators? if they had used 
 gas on those jackals they all would have scattered.
 
 -gayane: they would not have scattered. the soldiers had been there since 
 morning, they didn't bring in fresh troops. they hadn't eaten, they were fine 
 standing there for about three hours, but then they got tired. they weren't 
 even allowed to sit down . . . at noon they, the soldiers, attacked them, and 
 then the tables were turned. the mob went after the soldiers, the guys were 
 bunched into a group in the center street and covered themselves with their 
 shields, and the azerbaijanis surrounded them and threw paving stones at them.
 and those guys sat there covering themselves with their shields. and meanwhile
 tanks with machine guns were cruising the streets . . . they always say, "our 
 children have never seen war." i never even dreamed about it, there was no 
 need to. but then i thought about those people who had lived through a war. it
 was truly horrible . . . the guys were tired, exhausted, some had had their 
 clubs taken away, others, their shields, they had been beaten, they were 
 covered in blood . . . so many died! they beat the soldiers with their own 
 clubs and shields. and those guys stood there and couldn't defend themselves, 
 they couldn't open fire. they couldn't even defend themselves, let alone us. 
 it's comical . . .
 
 -zinaida: what are you saying? how can it be funny?
 
 -gayane: no, i didn't mean that: how could something like that happen during 
 our soviet period? it's painfully embarrassing! and they burned the armored 
 personnel carriers, too. someone shouted, "get away, it's going to blow!" 
 everyone scattered away, and the armored personnel carrier exploded. the 
 soldiers lost their senses. and when they drove the personnel carrier and the 
 bus at the mob out of rage and fury, they drove right up on the sidewalk.
 
 -zinaida: the bus that had brought the troops. only the driver was in it. the 
 bus ran over three people straight off, i saw it. and two armored personnel 
 carriers ran over four more. all in one or two minutes. the bus ran over 
 three, one of the carriers ran over two, and the second, two more. right on 
 our street there's a dry cleaners and appliance and watch repair places; one 
 of the armored personnel carriers went that way, and they say it ran over
 several over there, too. but they ran over seven before our eyes. then the bus
 ploughed into a book kiosk.
 
 -gayane: no, that was a flower place. it was a new booth. he drove straight 
 into it.
 
 -zinaida: the driver jumped out and they dragged the vehicle out to the
 middle of the road and set it on fire.
 
 -gayane: and i also saw the troops put a bunch of azerbaijanis in a bus and 
 take them in a convoy to baku. there were many arrests.
 
 -zinaida: our neighbor, the one who hid us, couldn't take it, and he told his 
 wife that we should leave. they were running around in the courtyard looking 
 for the armenians. they knew that they were hiding with azerbaijanis, and they
 were saying that they were going to check the azerbaijani families. poor 
 tayara got scared too, and started to cry; i pleaded with her, i said that i 
 would remember forever how she saved my children and me, but where could we 
 go?
 
 -gayane: she didn't make us leave, she said that she would do anything, but 
 she was afraid.
 
 -zinaida: i told tayara that we would just stay a little longer and that at
 night we would return to our apartment. then her husband came back and said 
 that a curfew had been imposed. he says, "zina, you owe us a drink. gorbachev 
 announced a curfew." and bagirov [first secretary of the communist party of 
 azerbaijan ssr] was on television, he said that two people had been killed in 
 karabagh, but nothing was wrong, automobile windows had been broken, but there
 hadn't been any killings. he kept making statements, and there were 
 azerbaijani songs and dances. tayara turned the tv all the way up. when we 
 learned of the curfew we calmed down, but then a crowd ran into the courtyard 
 again, a large one. our neighbor told them that there had been only one 
 armenian family here, but they had already killed them all, there was no one 
 left. we hid in the wardrobe again. and they stuck diana back under the bed.
 
 -gayane: tayara went down to our apartment to see what was happened there, and
 found two bandits. they asked her, "what are you doing here" tayara answered, 
 "i came to take something for myself." "take all you want, they're gone now." 
 
 -zinaida: yes, she had wanted to get something for us, at least some bedding. 
 she said, "what are you going to do, empty handed, naked, with three children,
 nothing remains of your entire apartment." in short, we calmed down, and the 
 crowd raced off to the other building, the one across from us. i don't know 
 what went on there.
 
 -gayane: the curfew had its effect on the gangs, many started to disperse:
 they were warned that they would open fire on them. the soldiers didn't know 
 the city, they couldn't get oriented, they drove up and down the main streets,
 but didn't go into the courtyards. when we were at the city party committee 
 they asked people from sumgait to go with them and show them the way.
 
 -zinaida: the tanks entered the city on the night of the 29th.
 
 -gayane: no, mamma, the tanks had been there earlier, but were near the city 
 party committee, where the armenians were . . . after midnight, on march 1, 
 when i had finally gotten to sleep after two sleepless nights, mamma said, 
 "get your things together, they have sent buses for us." as it was we had been
 dressed the entire time. mamma went to check it out . . .and came back for us.
 
 -zinaida: when i came back for the children tayara said that vika was alive 
 and well, some guys had come and told her that they had hidden her in a safe 
 place. i both believed it and didn't believe it. we ran out to the tanks. the 
 gambarians were there, roman and sasha; their father, shurik, the clarinetist,
 was killed, and their mother was there. sasha came over and asked about the 
 girls. i was surprised, how did he know my girls? he said that he knew me and 
 the girls. our neighbor himself went for gaya and diana and it seemed like he 
 was taking forever so i went after him. another neighbor came out, anna 
 vasilyevna, a russian: "zinochka, my dear, goodbye and good luck." she kissed 
 diana. they put us in the bus and the captain gave the order for us to be 
 taken to the city party committee. the bus wouldn't start, so they put us on 
 another one. it was pouring rain.
 
 -diana: when they imposed the curfew there were many soldiers on the streets, 
 and they all had clubs and shields. and when the azerbaijanis attacked them, 
 many of the soldiers died. they threw paving stones--huge rocks--at the 
 soldiers. i saw this myself. the soldiers ran over those azerbaijanis with the
 tanks. the soldiers saw that the azerbaijanis were doing violence to people 
 and they ran over them out of rage. we got scared and they hid me under a 
 mattress and a blanket, and gaya and mamma crawled into the wardrobe. and they
 were fighting right down there on the street . . . near the building they were
 blowing up buses and tanks, and cars were burning, and there were many dead in
 the courtyard. they drove without looking to see if it was a sidewalk or a 
 street, they just drove, and the ones who didn't manage to get out of the way 
 were run over by the tanks. and when we left--it was evening, it was already 
 dark--there were three buses, and one of them had soldiers in it. mamma ran up
 and said, "get your clothes on, let's go." gaya was wearing slippers, and i 
 had on my blue dress, but it was an old one. i was wearing my old jacket, my 
 old dress, and slippers. and nothing else. gaya had on a skirt, her angora 
 sweater, and slippers. it was raining hard, and there were puddles on the 
 street. they gave mamma an old coat because she was wearing a short-sleeved 
 dress; she put it on and we ran out. we got onto the bus and i was hungry, one
 of the soldiers from yerevan gave me rations and carried me from one bus to
 the other in his arms. i gave him the little glass that remained from vika's
 trousseau, and he gave me his telephone number.
 
 -gayane: in the bus there was a soldier with a shield sitting at every window.
 we had to be ready for anything. they took us to the city party committee, let
 us out, and then took us into the city party committee building under armed 
 guard. it was jammed with people and you couldn't breathe. we asked, "are 
 these all us? armenians?" they answered yes. we were surprised that there were
 so many armenians in sumgait. all those years we lived there and didn't know 
 there were so many armenians, 18,000. we were struck by that, we had never 
 noticed. going downstairs the next day i ran into the secretary of the 
 komsomol from vika's plant, the khimprom. he said that vika was alive and 
 well. when i told mamma she of course calmed down some more. but you know, 
 after all that it was hard to believe anything, our faith in everything was 
 just gone. she didn't believe it completely.
 
 -zinaida: i didn't believe it because i had heard all kinds of things. when
 we arrived at the city party committee we heard everything imaginable! it
 was the fear of god. i saw many of our acquaintances, they were kissing each 
 other and asking how their children and homes were. many people already knew 
 that there had been a pogrom of our apartment. they had seen the broken 
 windows. i cried, saying that i didn't know where vika was. one woman said 
 that they had taken two of her daughters and that she couldn't find one of 
 them; the other had been slashed all over. a second said that her husband and
 her son had been murdered. that was nelli aramian. she lived in building 6 in 
 our microdistrict. they killed her husband, armo, and her son artur. i heard 
 so many things like that that i was already starting to lose touch; my 
 patience had run dry waiting for my daughter. later an azerbaijani fellow came
 to me and said, aunt zina, vika sent me, she's alive and well and hidden in a 
 safe place; if you want i'll call her there and you can speak with her. we 
 went downstairs to the first floor and he called vika. i spoke with her, heard
 the voice of my child. she had managed to survive in that hell. then i started
 begging that azerbaijani to bring her to the city party committee. he tried to
 talk me out of it: "i'll bring her wherever you go, don't worry, i've looked 
 after her better than a brother does a sister." all the same i asked him to 
 get her. he brought her and i calmed down. on the second day there was a 
 meeting with demichev [member of the politburo of the central committee of the
 communist party of the ussr,] and people started shouting. one shouted, "give 
 me my son back!", another yelled, "where is my daughter?!", a third wanted her
 husband . . . bagirov  was there too, and he stood there blinking, not saying 
 anything.
 
 -gayane: when demichev asked where we wanted to go, everyone shouted, "to
 russia!" to be honest we were all frightened of armenia, there were such wild 
 rumors it was as though we were in a terrible dream, and no one wanted to go 
 to armenia. but he said that he couldn't evacuate 18,000 people to russia and 
 that he would meet with everyone individually the next day and speak with 
 them. and he also said that today he was going to go look at all of our 
 apartments. on march 3 we went to the military barracks in the village of 
 nasosny. we were taken care of marvelously by the military. they sent special 
 flights of children right from there to minvody, yerevan, and moscow. one 
 woman left for moscow with a letter for gorbachev and gromyko.
 
 -zinaida: the worst was truly behind us by then. everything had passed, but 
 the pain will remain for our whole lives. it cannot be forgotten. under no 
 circumstances should we, our children, or our grandchildren forget. who will
 answer for those who died? for our mothers, sisters, brother, sons and
 daughters? who will bear the responsibility? who will wash away their blood? 
 someone should be made to answer, and severely, so it has an effect on the 
 people that did with us as they pleased . . . it isn't over yet, now we live 
 here, in armenia, protected, but the issue isn't resolved. we would like
 to stay in armenia, in our homeland, so that all the armenian people will be
 united. then we will be invincible. armenians won't be scattered throughout 
 the soviet union, about the world, and if we're all together this won't happen
 again. as a mother of three children, as a woman, as a sister, i ask armenians
 to be united so that what happened in sumgait will never happen again. our 
 homeland . . . the only request we have is that we be helped in obtaining an 
 apartment and getting jobs. so that our children can work for the good of 
 armenia. if we aren't able to, then let our children do it. and if it's 
 possible, we'll work for the good of armenia too. this is the land of our 
 forefathers. our grandfathers and great-grandfathers lived here too, it was 
 only later that people dispersed all over. like a mother, the land here bore 
 and reared us. it is our wife, and will protect us, too. i want but one thing:
 that our people never see the hardship that our children saw, that your 
 children here, in armenia, never see anything like it.
 
   may 28, 1988
   yerevan
 		     - - - reference - - -
 
 [1] _the sumgait tragedy; pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan,
     volume i, eyewitness accounts_, edited by samuel shahmuradian, forward by
     yelena bonner, 1990, published by aristide d. caratzas, ny, pages 187-203
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "armenia has not learned a lesson in
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  anatolia and has forgotten the 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  punishment inflicted on it."  4/14/93
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |   -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
 