
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: unconventional peace proposal
 
 
 a unconventional proposal for peace in the middle-east.
 ---------------------------------------------------------- by
 			  elias davidsson
 
 the following proposal is based on the following assumptions:
 
 1.      fundamental human rights, such as the right to life, to
 education, to establish a family and have children, to human
 dignity, the right to free movement, to free expression, etc. are
 more important to human existence that the rights of states.
 
 2.      in the event of a conflict between basic human rights and
 rights of collectivities, basic human rights should prevail.
 
 3.      between the collectivities defining themselves as
 jewish-israeli and palestinian-arab, however labelled, an
 unresolved conflict exists.
 
 4.      this conflict has caused great sufferings for millions of
 people. it moreover poisons relations between communities, peoples
 and nations.
 
 5.      each year, the united states expends billions of dollars
 in economic and military aid to the conflicting parties.
 
 6.      attempts to solve the israeli-arab conflict by traditional
 political means have failed.
 
 7.      as long as the conflict is perceived as that between two
 distinct ethnical/religious communities/peoples which claim the
 land, there is no just nor peaceful solution possible.
 
 8.      love between human beings can be capitalized for the sake
 of peace and justice. when people love, they share.
 
 having stated my assumptions, i will now state my proposal.
 
 1.      a fund should be established which would disburse grants
 for each child born to a couple where one partner is israeli-jew
 and the other palestinian-arab.
 
 2.      to be entitled for a grant, a couple will have to prove
 that one of the partners possesses or is entitled to israeli
 citizenship under the law of return and the other partner,
 although born in areas under current isreali control, is not
 entitled to such citizenship under the law of return.
 
 3.      for the first child, the grant will amount to $18.000. for
 the second the third child, $12.000 for each child. for each
 subsequent child, the grant will amount to $6.000 for each child.
 
 
 4.      the fund would be financed by a variety of sources which
 have shown interest in promoting a peaceful solution to the
 israeli-arab conflict, including the u.s. government, jewish and
 christian organizations in the u.s.  and a great number of
 governments and international organizations.
 
 5.      the emergence of a considerable number of 'mixed'
 marriages in israel/palestine, all of whom would have relatives on
 'both sides' of the divide, would make the conflict lose its
 ethnical and unsoluble core and strengthen the emergence of a
 truly civil society. the existence of a strong 'mixed' stock of
 people would also help the integration of israeli society into the
 middle-east in a graceful manner.
 
 objections to this proposal will certainly be voiced. i will
 attempt to identify some of these:
 
 1.      the idea of providing financial incentives to selected
 forms of partnership and marriage, is not conventional. however,
 it is based on the concept of affirmative action, which is
 recognized as a legitimate form of public policy to reverse the
 perverse effects of segregation and discrimination. international
 law clearly permits affirmative action when it is aimed at
 reducing racial discrimination and segregation.
 
 2.      it may be objected that the israeli-palestinian conflict
 is not primarily a religious or ethnical conflict, but that it is
 a conflict between a colonialist settler society and an indigenous
 colonized society that can only regain its freedom by armed
 struggle. this objection is based on the assumption that the
 'enemy' is not zionism as ideology and practice, but
 israeli-jewish society and its members which will have to be
 defeated. this objection has no merit because it does not fulfill
 the first two assumptions concerning the primacy of fundamental
 human rights over collective rights (see above)
 
 3.      fundamentalist jews would certainly object to the use of
 financial incentives to encourage 'mixed marriages'. from their
 point of view, the continued existence of a specific jewish people
 overrides any other consideration, be it human love, peace of
 human rights.  the president of the world jewish congress, edgar
 bronfman, reflected this view a few years ago in an interview he
 gave to der spiegel, a german magazine. he called the increasing
 assimilation of jews in the world a <calamity>, comparable in its
 effects only with the holocaust. this objection has no merit
 either because it does not fulfill the first two assumptions (see
 above)
 
 4.      it may objected that only a few people in
 israel/palestine, would request such grants and that it would thus
 not serve its purpose. to this objection one might respond that
 although it is not possible to determine with certainty the effect
 of such a proposal, the existence of such a fund would help mixed
 couples to resist the pressure of their respective societies and
 encourage young couples to reject fundamentalist and racist
 attitudes.
 
 5.      it may objected that such a fund would need great sums to
 bring about substantial demographic changes. this objection has
 merits. however, it must be remembered that huge sums, more than
 $3 billion, are expended each year by the united states government
 and by u.s. organizations to maintain an elusive peace in the
 middle-east through armaments. a mere fraction of these sums would
 suffice to launch the above proposal and create a more favorable
 climate towards the existence of 'mixed' marriages in
 israel/palestine, thus encouraging the emergence of a
 non-segregated society in that worn-torn land.
 
 i would be thankful for critical comments to the above proposal as
 well for any dissemination of this proposal for meaningful
 discussion and enrichment.
 
 elias davidsson post box 1760 121 reykjavik, iceland
 
 