
      accounts of anti-armenian human right violatins in azerbaijan #009
                  prelude to current events in nagorno-karabakh
 
       +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
       |                                                                 |
       | there were about six burned people in there, and the small      |
       | corpse of a burned child. it was gruesome. i suffered a         |
       | tremendous shock. there were about ten people there, but the    |
       | doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being |
       | taken to baku. there was a woman's corpse there too, she had    |
       | been . . . well, there was part of a body there . . . a         |
       | hacked-off part of a woman's body. it was something terrible.   |
       |                                                                 |
       +-----------------------------------------------------------------+
 
 deposition of roman aleksandrovich gambarian
 
    born 1954
    senior engineer
    sumgait automotive transport production association
 
    resident at building 17/33b, apartment 40
    microdistrict no. 3
    sumgait [azerbaijan]
 
 
 what happened in sumgait was a great tragedy, an awful tragedy for us, the 
 armenian people, and for all of mankind. a genocide of armenians took place
 during peacetime.
 
 and it was a great tragedy for me personally, because i lost my father in
 those days. he was still young. born in 1926.
 
 on that day, february 28, we were at home. of course we had heard that there 
 was unrest in town, my younger brother aleksandr had told us about it. but we 
 didn't think . . . we thought that everything would happen outdoors, that they
 wouldn't go into people's apartments. about five o'clock we saw a large crowd 
 near the kosmos movie theater in our microdistrict. we were sitting at home 
 watching television. we go out on the balcony and see the crowd pour into mir 
 street. this is right near downtown, next to the airline ticket office, our 
 house is right nearby. that day there was a group of policeman with shields
 there. they threw rocks at those policemen. then they moved off in the 
 direction of our building. they burned a motorcycle in our courtyard and 
 started shouting for armenians to come out of the building. we switched off 
 the light. as it turns out, their signal was just the opposite: to turn on the
 light. that meant that it was an azerbaijani home. we, of course, didn't know 
 and thought that if they saw lights on they would come to our apartment.
 
 suddenly there's pounding on the door. we go to the door, all four of us:
 there were four of us in the apartment. father, mother, my younger brother
 aleksandr, and i. he was born in 1959. my father was a veteran of world war 
 ii and had fought in china and in the soviet far east; he was a pilot.
 
 we went to the door and they started pounding on it harder, breaking it down 
 with axes. we start to talk to them in azerbaijani, "what's going on? what's 
 happened?" they say, "armenians, get out of here!" we don't open the door, we 
 say, "if we have to leave, we'll leave, we'll leave tomorrow." they say, "no, 
 leave now, get out of here, armenian dogs, get out of here!" by now they've 
 broken the door both on the lock and the hinge sides. we hold them off as best
 we can, my father and i on one side, and my mother and brother on the other. 
 we had prepared ourselves: we had several hammers and an axe in the apartment,
 and grabbed what we could find to defend ourselves. they broke in the door and
 when the door gave way, we held it for another half-hour. no neighbors, no
 police and no one from the city government came to our aid the whole time. we 
 held the door. they started to smash the door on the lock side, first with an 
 axe, and then with a crowbar.
 
 when the door gave way--they tore it off its hinges--sasha hit one of them 
 with the axe. the axe flew out of his hands. they also had axes, crowbars, 
 pipes, and special rods made from armature shafts. one of them hit my father 
 in the head. the pressure from the mob was immense. when we retreated into the
 room, one of them hit my mother, too, in the left part of her face. my brother
 sasha and i fought back, of course. sasha is quite strong and hot-tempered, he
 was the judo champion of sumgait. we had hammers in our hands, and we injured 
 several of the bandits--in the heads and in the eyes, all that went on. but 
 they, the injured ones, fell back, and others came to take their places, there
 were many of them.
 
 the door fell down at an angle. the mob tried to remove the door, so as to go 
 into the second room and to continue . . . to finish us off. father brought 
 skewers and gave them to sasha and me--we flew at them when we saw father 
 bleeding: his face was covered with blood, he had been wounded in the head, 
 and his whole face was bloody. we just threw ourselves on them when we saw 
 that. we threw ourselves at the mob and drove back the ones in the hall, drove
 them down to the third floor. we came out on the landing, but a group of the 
 bandits remained in one of the rooms they were smashing all the furniture in 
 there, having closed the door behind them. we started tearing the door off to 
 chase away the remaining ones or finish them. then a man, an imposing man of 
 about 40, an azerbaijani, came in. when he was coming in, father fell down and
 mother flew to him, and started to cry out. i jumped out onto the balcony and 
 started calling an ambulance, but then the mob started throwing stones through
 the windows of our veranda and kitchen. we live on the fourth floor. and no 
 one came. i went into the room. it seemed to me that this man was the leader 
 of the group. he was respectably dressed in a hat and a trench coat with a 
 fur collar. and he addressed my mother in azerbaijani: "what's with you, 
 woman, why are you shouting? what happened? why are you shouting like that?"
 she says, "what do you mean, what happened? you killed somebody!" my father 
 was a musician, he played the clarinet, he played at many weddings, armenian 
 and azerbaijani, he played for many years. everyone knew him. mother says, 
 "the person who you killed played at thousands of azerbaijani weddings, he 
 brought so much joy to people, and you killed that person." he says, "you 
 don't need to shout, stop shouting." and when they heard the voice of this 
 man, the 15 to 18 people who were in the other room opened the door and 
 started running out. we chased after them, but they ran away. that man left, 
 too. as we were later told, downstairs one of them told the others, i don't 
 know if it was from fright or what, told them that we had firearms, even
 though we only fought with hammers and an axe. we raced to father and started 
 to massage his heart, but it was already too late. we asked the neighbors to 
 call an ambulance. the ambulance never came, although we waited for it all 
 evening and all through the night.
 
 somewhere around midnight about 15 policemen came. they informed us they were 
 from khachmas. they said, "we heard that a group was here at your place, you 
 have our condolences." they told us not to touch anything and left. father lay
 in the room.
 
 so we stayed home. each of us took a hammer and a knife. we sat at home. well,
 we say, if they descend on us again we'll defend ourselves. somewhere around 
 one o'clock in the morning two people came from the sumgait procuracy, 
 investigators. they say, "leave everything just how it is, we're coming back 
 here soon and will bring an expert who will record and photograph everything."
 then people came from the republic procuracy too, but no one helped us take 
 father away. the morning came and the neighbors arrived. we wanted to take 
 father away somehow. we called the procuracy and the police a couple of times,
 but no one came. we called an ambulance, and nobody came. then one of the 
 neighbors said that the bandits were coming to our place again and we should 
 hide. we secured the door somehow or other. we left father in the room and 
 went up to the neighbor's.
 
 the excesses began again in the morning. the bandits came in several vehicles,
 zil panel trucks, and threw themselves out of the vehicles like . . . a 
 landing force near the center of town. our building was located right there. a
 crowd formed. then they started fighting with the soldiers. then, in buildings
 19 and 20, that's next to the airline ticket office, they started breaking 
 into armenian apartments, destroying property, and stealing. the armenians 
 weren't at home, they had managed to flee and hide somewhere. and again they 
 poured in the direction of our building. they were shouting that there were 
 some armenians left on the fourth floor, meaning us. "they're up there, still,
 up there. let's go kill them!" they broke up all the furniture remaining in 
 the two rooms, threw it outside, and burned it in large fires. we were hiding 
 one floor up. something heavy fell. sasha threw himself toward the door 
 shouting that it was probably father, they had thrown father, were defiling 
 the corpse, probably throwing it in the fire, going to burn it. i heard it, 
 and the sound was kind of hollow, and i said, "no, that's from some of the 
 furniture." mother and i pounced on sasha and stopped him somehow, and calmed 
 him down.
 
 the mob left somewhere around eight o'clock. they smashed open the door and 
 went into the apartment of the neighbors across from us. they were also
 armenians, they had left for another city.
 
 the father of the neighbor who was concealing us came and said, "are you 
 crazy? why are you hiding armenians? don't you now they're checking all the 
 apartments? they could kill you and them!" and to us :" . . . come on, leave 
 this apartment!" we went down to the third floor, to some other neighbors'. at
 first the man didn't want to let us in, but then one of his sons asked him and
 he relented. we stayed there until eleven o'clock at night. we heard the sound
 of motors. the neighbors said that it was armored personnel carriers. we went 
 downstairs. there was a light on in the room where we left father. in the 
 other rooms, as we found out later, all the chandeliers had been torn down. 
 they left only one bulb. the bulb was burning, which probably was a signal 
 they had agreed on because there was a light burning in every apartment in our
 microdistrict 3 where there had been a pogrom.
 
 with the help of the soldiers we made it to the city party committee and were 
 saved. our salvation--my mother's, my brother's, and mine,--was purely 
 accidental, because, as we later found out from the neighbors, someone in the 
 crowd shouted that we had firearms up there. well, we fought, but we were only
 able to save mother. we couldn't save father. we inflicted many injuries on 
 the bandits, some of them serious. but others came to take their places. we 
 were also wounded, there was blood, and we were scratched all over--we got our
 share. it was a miracle we survived. we were saved by a miracle and the 
 troops. and if troops hadn't come to sumgait, the slaughter would have been 
 even greater: probably all the armenians would have been victims of the 
 genocide.
 
 through an acquaintance at the city party committee i was able to contact the 
 leadership of the military unit that was brought into the city, and at their 
 orders we were assigned special people to accompany us, experts. we went to '
 pick up father's corpse. we took it to the morgue. this was about two o'clock 
 in the morning, it was already march 1, it was raining very hard and it was 
 quite cold, and we were wearing only our suits. when my brother and i carried 
 father into the morgue we saw the burned and disfigured corpses. there were 
 about six burned people in there, and the small corpse of a burned child. it 
 was gruesome. i suffered a tremendous shock. there were about ten people 
 there, but the doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being
 taken to baku. there was a woman's corpse there too, she had been . . . well, 
 there was part of a body there . . . a hacked-off part of a woman's body. it 
 was something terrible. the morgue was guarded by the landing force . . . the 
 child that had been killed was only ten or twelve years old. it was impossible
 to tell if it was a boy or a girl because the corpse was burned. there was a 
 man there, too, several men. you couldn't tell anything because their faces 
 were disfigured, they were in such awful condition...
 
 now two and a half months have passed. every day i recall with horror what 
 happened in the city of sumgait. every day: my father, and the death of my 
 father, and how we fought, and the people's sorrow, and especially the morgue.
 
 i still want to say that 70 years have passed since soviet power was
 established, and up to the very last minute we could not conceive of what 
 happened  in sumgait. it will go down in history.
 
 i'm particularly surprised that the mob wasn't even afraid of the troops. they
 even fought the soldiers. many soldiers were wounded. the mob threw fuel 
 mixtures onto the armored personnel carriers, setting them on fire. they 
 weren't afraid. they were so sure of their impunity that they attacked our 
 troops. i saw the clashes on february 29 near the airline ticket office, right
 across from our building. and that mob was fighting with the soldiers. the 
 inhabitants of some of the buildings, also azerbaijanis, threw rocks at the 
 soldiers from windows, balconies, even cinder blocks and glass tanks. they 
 weren't afraid of them. i say they were sure of their impunity. when we were 
 at the neighbors' and when they were robbing homes near the airline ticket 
 office i called the police at number 3-20-02 and said that they were robbing 
 armenian apartments and burning homes. and they told me that they knew that 
 they were being burned. during those days no one from the police department 
 came to anyone's aid. no one came to help us, either, to our home, even though
 perhaps they could have come and saved us.
 
 as we later found out the mob was given free vodka and drugs, near the bus 
 station. rocks were distributed in all parts of town to be thrown and used in 
 fighting. so i think all of it was arranged in advance. they even knew in 
 which buildings and apartments the armenians lived, on which floors--they had
 lists, the bandits. you can tell that the "operation" was  planned in advance.
 
 thanks, of course, to our troops, to the country's leadership, and to the
 leadership of the ministry of defense for helping us, thanks to the russian
 people, because the majority of the troops were russians, and the troops 
 suffered losses, too. i want to express this gratitude in the name of my 
 family and in the name of all armenians, and in the name of all sumgait
 armenians. for coming in time and averting terrible things: worse would
 have happened if that mob had not been stopped on time.
 
 at present an investigation is being conducted on the part of the ussr
 procuracy. i want to say that those bandits should receive the severest
 possible punishment, because if they don't, the tragedy, the genocide, could 
 happen again. everyone should see that the most severe punishment is meted
 out for such deeds.
 
 very many bandits and hardened hooligans took part in the unrest, in the mass 
 disturbances. the mobs were huge. at present not all of them have been caught,
 very few of them have been, i think, judging by the newspaper reports. there 
 were around 80 people near our building alone, that's how many people took 
 part in the pogrom of our building all in all.
 
 they should all receive the most severe punishment so that others see that 
 retribution awaits those who perform such acts.
 
    may 18, 1988
    yerevan
 
 		     - - - reference - - -
 
 [1] _the sumgait tragedy; pogroms against armenians in soviet azerbaijan,
     volume i, eyewitness accounts_, edited by samuel shahmuradian, forward by
     yelena bonner, 1990, published by aristide d. caratzas, ny, pages 153-157
 
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "how do we explain turkish troops on
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  the armenian border, when we can't 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  even explain 1915?" 
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |              turkish mp, march 1992 
 