
 in article <hm.93apr24130647@angell.cs.brown.edu> hm@cs.brown.edu (harry mamaysky) writes:
 
 >from _myths and facts_, by leonard j. davis, near east research inc.,
 >1989:
 
 great, someone will be posting from 'protocols of the elders of zion' next
 
 >    "unlike the plo's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets,
 
 at this time the plo did not exist and would not for the next 20 years.
 you knew that didn't you? perhaps you might want to add up all the jewish
 civilians killed during the 48 war. i'll opt for the massacre at deir yassin.
 which do you think is the greater?
 
 >in 1983, however, eric silver of _the guardian_ (britain)
 >interviewed a survivor, mophammed sammour, who testified that 116 out
 >of a population of 800-1000 were killed.
 
 while we are talking about this man i have included more of his testimony
 that harry naturally does not use nor does myths and facts. i wonder why.
 no doubt he was lying right harry?
 
                 "the reason was mainly economic. that is
                  to capture booty in order to maintain
                  the bases which we had then established
                  with very poor resources. the main idea,
                  despite this, remained the conquest of
                  the village by force of arms, something
                  which was then unknown in the country,
                  and became a turning point in jewish
                  military operations"
 
                  yehuda lapidot, jabontinsky archives testimony
 
                  "apart from the military discussion, the
                   lehi put forward a proposal to liqui-
                   date the residents of the village after
                   the conquest, in order to show the arabs
                   what happens when the izl and the lehi
                   set out together on an operation, and for
                   another main reason - it would cause a
                   great uproar throughout the land and
                   would be an important turning point in
                   the course of the battles. the clear aim
                   was to break the arab morale and raise
                   somewhat the morale of the jewish commu-
                   nity in jerusalem, which had been hit
                   hard time after time, especially recenctly
                   by the desecration of jewish bodies which
                   fell into arab hands"
 
                   yehuda lapidot, jabotinsky archives
                   testimony as quoted by yisrael segal in
                   "the deir yassin file", published by
                   koteret rashit 19th january 1983
 
 so it wasn't like the holocaust more like lidice - a warning, a punishment.
 collective and inflicted on unarmed innocents just not as through.
 
                  "when it comes to prisoners, old people
                   and children, there were differences
                   of opinion, but the majority was for
                   liquidation of all the men in the village
                   and any other force that opposed us,
                   whether it be old people, women or children
 
                   benzion cohen
                   commander of the attack on deir yassin,
                   (j.a.t.)
 
 let me put in some words here
                 a. premeditated
                 b. murder
 what do you say about the eyewitness testimony of the man in command?
 
                  "we had prisoners and before the retreat
                   we decided to liquidate them. we also
                   liquidated the wounded, as anyway we could
                   not give them first aid. in one place
                   about eighty arab prisoners were killed
                   after some of them had opened fire and
                   killed one of the people who came to give
                   them first aid. arabs who dressed up
                   as arab women were also found, and so
                   they started to shoot the women also who
                   did not hurry to the area where the
                   prisoners were concentrated"
 
                   (j.a.t.)
 
 shooting prisoners, the wounded, as a warning to hurry? sounds very
 familiar to me, how about you? heard of other people other places doing
 these things?
 
                  "in one case - the zahran family - only
                   one out of twenty five survived. in
                   another house they caught the sixteen
                   year old son fuad. his mother was holding
                   him. they killed him with a knife. the
                   mother spent twenty years after that in
                   a mental hospital. a young woman and her
                   two year old baby were shot in the
                   street. their bodies were left there.
                   they moved to the centre of the village
                   and started to kill everybody they saw or
                   heard, as soon as anybody opened his
                   door. they were using bombs [grenades],
                   machine-guns, submachine-guns. my cousin
                   escaped with bullet-holes in his clothes.
                   one of the officers put his machinegun
                   through a window and started shooting
                   outwards, killing everybody who moved.
                   they killed my uncle, ali hassan zeidan,
                   and my aunt fatima. she heard him call
                   'help me'. she ran to him and they killed
                   her. another neighbour haj yarah,
                   heard some voices and came out. they killed
                   him too. his son muhammad, who was
                   about seventeen, heard his father call
                   him and went to the same place. they
                   killed him. his mother heard her son cry
                   for help. she ran out and they killed
                   her. that was near my house. i saw this"
 
                   muhammad arif sammour
 
 funny how 'myths and facts' does not see fit to include this too - after all
 if he is reliable enough to report casualties why not the actual events? what
 do you say about this harry?
 
                  "in the exchange that followed four men
                   were killed and a dozen were wounded..
                   ..by noon time the battle was over and
                   the shooting had ceased. although there
                   was a calm, the village had not yet surrendered.
                   the irgun and lehi men came
                   out of hiding and began to 'clean' the houses.
                   they shot whoever they saw, women
                   and children included, the commanders did
                   not try and stop the massacre...i
                   pleaded with the commander to order his
                   men to cease fire, but to no avail. in
                   the meantime twenty five arabs had been
                   loaded on a truck and driven through
                   mahane-yehuda and zichron yosef. at the
                   end of the drive, they were taken to
                   the quarry bvetween deir yassin and givat
                   shaul, and murdered in cold blood"
 
                   meir pa'il, interview with yediot ahronot 4|4|1972
 
 -- 
 joseph askew, gauche and proud  in the autumn stillness, see the pleiades,
 jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu  remote in thorny deserts, fell the grief.
 disclaimer? sue, see if i care  north of our tents, the sky must end somwhere,
 actually, i rather like brenda  beyond the pale, the river murmurs on.
 