
 in <1483500354@igc.apc.org>, cpr@igc.apc.org (center for political reflux)  wrote:
 
   [pseudo-letterhead deleted -- dcs]
 
 # while israeli jews fete the uprising of the warsaw ghetto, they
 # repress by violent means the uprising of the gaza ghetto and
 # attempt to starve the gazans.
 
   why do i detect the faint scent of bias here?  could it be because
   the israelis aren't feasting?  perhaps because the gazans aren't
   starving?
 
 # the gaza strip, this tiny area of land with the highest population
 # density in the world,
 
   oh, oh.  i hadn't realized that the chinese had wiped out hong
   kong, or that singapore had sunk into the sea, or that several
   other cities had vanished.  either that, or this is a taste of
   the quality of 'research' we're about to see.
 
 #                       has been cut off from the world for weeks.
 
   so i suppose that the footage on cnn last night was archival,
   and ted turner was faking it after the nbc style?  or is this
   another wee little exaggeration for the sake of a greater truth?
 
 # the israeli occupier has decided to punish the whole population of
 # gaza, some 700.000 people, by denying them the right to leave the
 # strip and seek work in israel.
 
   hey!  you forgot that israel has also denied syrians the same
   'right'.  come to think of it, mexico is denying me that 'right'
   evan as i write this!  or are you ever so gently suggesting that
   israel, unlike every other country on earth, shouldn't be allowed
   to control traffic across its borders?
 
 # while polish non-jews risked their lives to save jews from the
 # ghetto, no israeli jew is known to have risked his life to help
 # the gazan resistance.  the only help given to gazans by israeli
 # jews, only dozens of people, is humanitarian assistance.
 
   this sounds like a parallel, but it isn't.  tell us how many poles
   went into the ghetto to join the jews there.  oops!  for a moment
   there i forgot that in poland, 'humanitarian assistance" could
   get you killed.  come to think of it, humanitarian assistance to
   the gazans can get israelis killed, too.  except that in gaza,
   it's likely to be by a gazan death squad in your own office.
 
   so let's keep the parallel.  since the gross numbers aren't the
   same, we'll need a proportionality value.  should we use:
     * gazan vs jewish initial population?
     * gazan vs jewish death rates?
     * gazans vs jews who survived five years of occupation?
     * israelis vs nazis attacked by the 'resistance'?
     * israelis vs poles charged with aiding the victims?
   since the two cases are so comparable, it shouldn't matter
   which we pick, they'll all be about the same, right?
 
 ------------
 
 contrary to popular hyperbole, the idf *could* quite easily kill
 off the entire population of gaza in hours if they wanted to.
 (no, i'm not exaggerating.  and i really don't want to discuss how.)
 note that a million dead gazans don't get much more headline
 space than a dozen, and are just as soon forgotten -- and once
 exterminated, they can't keep popping up as headlines.
 
 so if a "final solution" for gaza would be so much better from
 a *realpolitik* standpoint, why doesn't israel go for it?  a
 difficult question to answer for those who can't believe anything
 good about jews, and probably why they keep trying to force-fit
 the facts into the theory.
 
 
 --- d. c. sessions                            speaking for myself ---
 --- note new network address:                dcs@witsend.tnet.com ---
 --- author (and everything else!) of tmail  (dos mail/news shell) ---
 