
 
 i appeal to to all of you to show up in washington dc. this saturday to
 participate in a peaceful demonstration for the sake of humanity!! this is a 
 critical point in the history of world and we can make a change otherwise things
 will not change there in bosnia.. rapes/killings/ethnic cleansing will
 go on as a norm in the days to follow. the un will get to the towns after the fall
 of thousands of inocent civilians (like in zapa just the past weekend!). it happened
 to the jews in 1940's, it's happening to the muslims today and who will be the next
 victim??
 
 since the europeans want to remain indifferent in this issue, time has come for us to
 take a leadership role to stop these crimes against humanity. time is now and
 this is for real folks, the people of new england bosnian relief committee seriously believe
 that clinton's adminstration will stop supporting the bosnian cause without sustained
 public pressure. i just called democaratic sen. john kerry's office and they are saying that 
 he (the senator) is waiting for president to take a decision, means that he will wait and 
 join the band-wagon later if it ever moves! 
 
 please don't rely on others to take part in this demonstration -you as an individual
 will make a big difference. bring your families too, not only you will help a great
 cause but also it will be fun for all. i know of several families from massachusetts
 who are travelling friday night to participate there. contact the local islamic center
 or bosnia relief agency if you want to travel by pre-arranged busses. the best option 
 for students is to rent-a-car and car-pool. please, spread the word around...
 
 
 
 regards,
 
 khalid chishti 
 
 if you live in massachusetts and want more info:
 
 call ginan (from new england bosnian relief committee): 617-623-1973 
 or 
 new england bosnian relief committee phone no:  (617) 464-0111
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 disclaimer: these are my opinions only and has nothing to do with my employer...
 