
 in article <c6tqat.gxp@cbnewsj.cb.att.com> avr@cbnewsj.cb.att.com (adam.v.reed) writes:
 
 >allegations of jewish
 >disrespect for the objects and buildings of other religions are
 >one of antisemitic stereotypes that permeate western culture, and
 >rumors of church and host desacration probably caused more pogroms
 >than blood libel. 
 
 about 2 years ago, there was a lot of noise about a church in the old
 city of jerusalem being taken over by a jewish group.  in fact, the
 building in question was a dormitory that belonged to a church and was 
 not physically connected to any church.  it had been leased to a
 palestinean arab for 99 years and a jewish group sub-leased it from
 him.  the church that owned the building disapproved and legal action
 was started to revoke the sub-lease.  the media, however, made it look
 like jewish vigilantes were stealing church property in jerusalem by
 force. 
 
 >the stereotypes that pervade our culture create
 >cognitive illusions that reify those stereotypes. therefore any
 >claim that appears to reify a stereotype should be treated by
 >decent people with utmost suspicion until and unless documented.
 
 the damage has already been done by the press in the above case.  it
 is not surprising by now, of course, that many "decent people" regard
 the press "with utmost suspicion".
 
 >if such a claim is cross-posted to a news group in which it has
 >not been documented before, such as s.c.j, a reference should be
 >given the first time it appears.  now that the claim has been
 >documented, i regard the whole episode as disgusting and
 >shameful. especially so because the official who failed to
 >provide proper temporary facilities for the evicted jordanians
 >was probably jewish, and as a jew i know that he should have
 >known better.
 
 you appear to be referring to moshe dayan.  how do you know that the
 "evicted jordanians" were not provided with something else?  in fact,
 this thread indicates that they were squatters on land that they did
 not own but received compensation for their loss, anyways!  woe to
 jews when they feel that recovering land that has been taken from them
 by force (with "ethnic cleansing" of any remaining jews) is
 "disgusting and shameful".  
 
 -- 
 jake livni  jake@bony1.bony.com           ten years from now, george bush will
 american-occupied new york                   have replaced jimmy carter as the
 my opinions only - employer has no opinions.    standard of a failed president.
 