
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: zionist leaders' frank statements
 
 the following are quotations from zionist leaders. they appear in
 numerous scholarly works dealing with the palestine question. i urge those
 who have access to original sources, to verify the authenticity of the
 source and post here their finding, adhering to the truth whatever it be.
 thanks.
 elias davidsson
 ------------------------------
 
 quotations from zionist leaders
 
 1. "there was no such thing as palestinians"
 (golda meir, prime minister of israel, london sunday 
 times, 15 june 1969)
 
 2. "there is, however, a difficulty from which the zionist 
 dares not avert his eyes, though he rarely likes to face it. 
 palestine proper has already its inhabitants."
 (israel zangwill, the voice of jerusalem, london 1920, 
 p.88)
 
 3. "when we have settled the land, all the arabs will be 
 able to do about it will be to scurry around like drugged 
 cockroaches in a bottle."
 (raphael eitan, israeli chief of staff, new york times, 14 
 april 1983)
 
 4. "[the palestinians are] beasts walking on two legs."
 (menachem begin, prime minister of israel in a speech to 
 the knesset,
 quoted in amnon kapeliouk, 'begin and the "beasts", new 
 statesman, 25 june 1982)
 
 5. "both the process of expropriation [of the palestinians] 
 and the removal of the poor must be carried out 
 discreetly and circumspectly".
 (dr. theodor herzl, the complete diaries, herzl press, 
 1960, i., p.88)
 
 6. "between ourselves it must be clear that there is no 
 room for both people together in this country...the only 
 solution is a palestine.....without arabs. and there is no 
 other way than to transfer the arabs from here to the 
 neighboring countries, to transfer all of them; not one 
 village, not one tribe, should be left."
 (joseph weitz, jewish national fund, administrator 
 responsible for zionist colonization. davar, 29 september 
 1967).
 
 7."we shall try to spirit the penniless population [the 
 palestinians] across the border by procuring employment 
 for it in the transit countries, while denying it any 
 employment in our own country"
 (theodor herzl, the complete diaries, herzl press, 1960, 
 i, p.88)
 
 8. "[zionists]...looked for means...to cause the tens of 
 thousands of sulky arabs who remained in the galilee to 
 flee...i gathered all the jewish muktars, who have contact 
 with arabs in different villages and asked them to 
 whisper in the ears of some arabs that a great jewish 
 reinforcement has arrived in galilee and that it is going 
 to burn all of the villages of the huleh. they should 
 suggest to these arabs, as their friends, to escape while 
 there is still time....the tactic reached its goal....wide 
 areas were cleaned."
 
 (yig'al alon, sepher ha palmach, in hebrew, ii. p.268, 
 quoted in khalidi, from haven to conquest, ips, 1971).
 
 10. "[jews] must expel arabs and take their place" 
 (david ben gurion, 1937, quoted in shabtai teveth, ben 
 gurion and the palestine arabs, oxford university press, 
 1985, p. 89)
 
 11. "we must do everything to ensure they [the 
 palestinian refugees] never do return"
 (david ben gurion, in his diary, 19 july 1948, quoted in 
 michael bar zohar, ben gurion: the armed prophet, 
 prentice-hall, 1967, p.157)
 
 12. "the country was mostly an empty desert, with only 
 a few islands of arab settlement"
 (shimon peres, minister of defense, quoted in david's 
 sling: the arming of israel, weidenfeld and nicholson, 
 1970, p.249)
 
 13. "all this story about the danger of extermination [of 
 jews] has been blown up....to justify the annexation of 
 new arab territories"
 (mordechai bentov, israeli cabinet minister, al 
 hamishmar, 14 april 1972)
 
 14. "neither jewish ethics nor jewish tradition can 
 disqualify terrorism as a means of combat"
 (yitzhak shamir, hehazit, summer 1943 [journal of the 
 lehi, the stern gang], translated from the israeli daily 
 al-hamishmar, 24 december 1987
 
 14. "the domination of jewish agriculture by arab 
 workers is a cancer in our body"
 (a. uzan, israeli minister of agriculture, ha'aretz, 13 
 december 1974)
 
 15. "there can be only one national home in palestine, 
 and that a jewish one, and no equality in the partnership 
 between jews and arabs"
 (montague david eder, president of the zionist 
 federation of great britain, 1931,
 in doreen ingrams, comp., palestine papers 1917-1922, 
 seeds of conflict, george braziller, 1973, p. 135)
 
 16. "i hope that the jewish frontiers of palestine will be 
 as great as jewish energy for getting palestine"
 (dr. chaim weizmann, first president of the state of 
 israel, excerpts from his historic statements, writings 
 and addresses, jewish agency for palestine, 1952, p.48)
 
 17. "there is not a single jewish village in this country 
 that has not been built on the site of an arab village"
 (moshe dayan, ha'aretz, 4 april 1969...)
 
 18. "some people talk of expelling 700,000 to 800,000 
 arabs in the event of a new war, and instruments have 
 been prepared"
 (aharon yariv, former chief of israeli military 
 intelligence, 1980, inquiry, 8 december 1980)
 
 19. "if i was an arab leader i would never make [peace] 
 with israel. that is natural: we have taken their 
 country."
 (david ben gurion, in nahum goldmann, the jewish 
 paradox, weidenfeld and nicolson, 1978, p.99)
 
 20. "we should there [in palestine] form a portion of the 
 rampart of europe against asia, an outpost of civilization 
 as opposed to barbarism."
 (dr. theodor herzl, the jewish state, london, 1896, p. 
 29)
 
 21. "i deeply believe in launching preventive war 
 against the arab states without further hesitation. by 
 doing so we will achieve two targets: firstly, the 
 annihilation of arab power; and secondly, the expansion 
 of our territory"
 (menachem begin, in a speech to the knesset, 12 october 
 1955)
 
 22. "during the last 100 years our people have been in a 
 process of building up the country and the nation, of 
 expansion, of getting additional jews and additional 
 settlements in order to expand the borders here. let no 
 jew say that the process has ended. let no jew say that 
 we are near the end of the road."
 (moshe dayan, ma'ariv, 7 july 1968)
 
 23. "until the british left, no jewish settlement, however 
 remote, was entered or seized by the arabs, while the 
 haganah, under severe and frequent attack, captured 
 many arab positions and liberated tiberias and haifa, 
 jaffa and safad"
 (david ben gurion, rebirth and destiny of israel, 
 philosophical library, 1954, p.530)
 
 24. "in the months preceding the arab invasion [of 
 1948], and while the five arab states were conducting 
 preparations, we continued to make sallies into arab 
 territory. the conquest of jaffa stands out as an event of 
 first-rate importance in the struggle for hebrew 
 independence early in may, on the eve of the invasion 
 by the five arab states."
 (menachem begin, the revolt,  nash, 1972, p.348)
 
 25. "what the french could do in tunisia, i said, the jews 
 would be able to do in palestine with jewish will, jewish 
 money, jewish power and jewish enthusiasm"
 (dr. chaim weizmann, first president of the state of 
 israel, trial and error, harper, 1949, p.244)
 
 26. "i do not think nasser wanted war. the two divisions 
 he sent to the sinai on may 14 [1967] would not have 
 been sufficient to launch an offensive against israel. he 
 knew it and we knew it."
 (yitzhak rabin, le monde, 29 february 1968)
 
 27. "to pretend that the egyptian forces massed on our 
 frontiers [in 1967] were in position to threaten the 
 existence of israel constitutes an insult not only to the 
 intelligence of anyone capable of analyzing this sort of 
 situation, but above all an insult to the zahal [israeli 
 army]"
 (general res. matti peled, ha'aretz,  19 march 1972)
 
 28. "when we have broken the strength of the arab 
 legion and bombarded amman, we would wipe out 
 transjordan; after that syria would fall....we would thus 
 end the war, and would have put paid to egypt, assyria 
 and chaldea on behalf of our ancestors"
 (david ben gurion in his diaries, quoted in michael bar-
 zohar,  the armed prophet, a biography of ben-gurion, 
 prentice-hall, 1967, p.139)
 
 29. "these jews of the diaspora would like to see us, for 
 their own reasons, heroes with our backs to the wall. but 
 this wish can in no way change the realities."
 (israeli general ezer weizmann, le monde, 3 june 1972)
 
 30. "let us not today fling accusations at the [palestinian 
 arab] murderers. who are we that we should argue 
 against their hatred ? for eight years now they sit in 
 their refugee camps in gaza, and before their very eyes, 
 we turn into our homestead the land and the villages in 
 which they and their forefathers have lived. we are a 
 generation of settlers, and without the steel helmet and 
 the cannon we cannot plant a tree and build a home. let 
 us not shrink back when we see the hatred fermenting 
 and filling the lives of hundreds of thousands of arabs, 
 who sit all around us. let us not avert our gaze, so that 
 our hand shall not slip. this is the fate of our generation, 
 the choice of our life - to be prepared and armed, strong 
 and tough - or otherwise, the sword will slip from our 
 first, and our life will be snuffed out."
 (moshe dayan, eulogy of roy rutenberg at kibbutz nahal 
 oz, 1956, quoted in uri avneri, israel without zionists, 
 collier books, macmillan, new york, 1971, p.154)
 
 
 