
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: labour's enclaves policy.important
 
 
 labour's enclaves policy in the occupied territories
 
 by israel shahak
 publ. in middle east international, london, 30.4.93
 
 it is not difficult to discover israel's policy towards the 
 palestinians at any given time. it can be easily inferred 
 from the facts on the ground and from the information 
 provided by the hebrew press. there is one condition, 
 though. the torrents of claptrap about "the peace 
 process" must be totally ignored, as must israel's official 
 pronouncements, whole sole purpose is to distort reality. 
 by concentrating only on the facts, it was early apparent 
 that labour's policies were no different from those of 
 shamir but for their greater reliance on deceit and their 
 more effective implementation.
 
 likud's policies were accurately described by ariel 
 sharon in an article, accompanied by a map, in yediot 
 aharonot last august. the sharon plan envisaged a 
 division of the west bank into seven, and the gaza strip 
 into four, "autonomous" palestinian enclaves, all of them 
 under israeli supervision. the total area of these 
 enclaves amounted to about 15 per cent of the 
 territories. the rest was to be controlled by the israeli 
 settlements and the highways built around the enclaves. 
 the entire area around jerusalem, from the outskirts of 
 ramallah to the boundaries of bethlehem, has already 
 been turned into a "greater jerusalem" where the arab-
 inhabited localities amount to small enclaves surrounded 
 by areas occupied by israeli settlements or reserved for 
 them.
 
 judging from labour's settlement policy, it may be 
 assumed that it may content itself with a lesser number 
 of arab enclaves of a rather larger size than sharon had 
 planned. but the principle of surrounding the enclaves by 
 settlements strategically dispersed along the highways 
 remains unchanged. labour plans only four enclaves in 
 the west bank: two in "samaria" and two in "judea" (i.e. 
 north and south of jerusalem respectively), and no more 
 than two in the gaza strip. in regard to "greater 
 jerusalem", labour's policies hardly deviate from 
 sharon's.
 
 a saner version of likud policy
 
 as some israeli correspondents at once realised, labour 
 policies were but a saner version of sharon's 
 extravaganza. last july, gideon eshet wrote in yediot 
 aharonot that, while "barely a few months ago" labour 
 supported the demand to freeze all construction beyond 
 the green line, "no specific decision to freeze 
 construction in the territories has been taken". and uzi 
 benziman wrote in ha'aretz that "as far as can be judged 
 on the basis of the internal political discussions in 
 jerusalem, rabin intends to stick to likud's ways".
 
 the two biggest enclaves envisaged by labour are 
 located in "samaria". therefore the belt of settlements 
 around the "trans-samaria highway", designed to 
 separate those enclaves from each other, is of paramount 
 importance. according to the latest data, the percentage 
 of israeli settlers in the entire west bank population 
 (apart from east jerusalem) is a mere 5.5 per cent. but 
 for the area around the "trans-samaria highway", the 
 corresponding figure is almost 20 per cent, and it is 
 increasing steadily. the situation in the settlements of 
 the "efrat block" south of jerusalem, designed to sever 
 the enclave around bethlehem from the one around 
 hebron, is pretty much the same. the "efrat block" is now 
 being connected with west jerusalem by a highway.
 
 the project is costly in the extreme, because the highway 
 is designed to bypass bethlehem by a sequence of long 
 tunnels. the final decision to build this highway was 
 suspended until rabin's return from his us visit in 
 march. the subsequent decision to renew its construction 
 can be seen as us approval for the enclaves plan as a 
 whole.
 
 process of impoverishment
 
 the enclaves plan implies deliberate and steady 
 impoverishment of the palestinians. this is well known 
 in israel but ignored abroad by all who should be 
 concerned, including the plo. in regard to the gaza strip, 
 the whole process was best described by ze'ev shiff in 
 ha'aretz in march. he mentions having seen "a pamphlet 
 issued six years ago by the civil administration 
 forecasting the conditions in the gaza strip under israeli 
 rule in 2000". his analysis deserves to be quoted 
 extensively:
 
 "we continue to steal the strip's water, even though its 
 quality deteriorates from year to year. we continue to 
 steal the strip's tiny land resources, in order to found 
 there more and more settlements, as if we deliberately 
 want to make the inhabitants despair, and in their 
 despair think in termws of having nothing to lose. it is 
 by our own doing that the strip's workers must now 
 spend travelling to their workplaces almost as much time 
 as they spend working. from the military point of view, 
 we have kept control of no more than half the strip's 
 area at an increasingly exorbitant price in manpower and 
 resources. about a year before moshe arens left the 
 defence ministry, i heard him saying that we should 
 withdraw from the strip come what may. his argument 
 was that israel sinks into the strip ever deeper and 
 deeper. he told me he had proposed this to yitzhak 
 shamir but he rejected it." yitzhak rabin rejects it too.
 
 enormous state support for the qatif block settlers can 
 also be cited as proof that the enclaves plan is being 
 implemented. the qatif block settlements, founded by 
 the first rabin government of 1974-77, are intended to 
 divide the gaza strip into two separate enclaves. efraim 
 davidi of davar had data showing how vital for israeli 
 this enterprise is. "the qatif block is now producing 40 
 per cent of israeli tomatoes destined for export, and a 
 substantial proportion of cut flowers." he also deals with 
 the subsidies the settlers receive, considerably 
 augmented by the present government. owing to them, 
 housing units are cheap. the present government does 
 not spare efforts to recruit new settlers to the block. 
 "any prospective settler will get a 95 per cent mortgage 
 for his house on top of a grant of 18,000 shekels 
 ($6,500)."
 
 such data shows that israel's plans apply whether the 
 palestinians of the gaza strip are allowed or forbidden to 
 work in israel. the economic motivations were explained 
 by danny rubinstein in ha'aretz in march:
 
 "from the economic viewpoint gaza could already be 
 sealed off hermetically and all the strip's workers could 
 be barred from entering israel...even though accurate 
 data is hard to come by, it is indisputable that during the 
 last two years the numbes of gazan workers arriving 
 daily to work in israel has markedly decreased, from 
 80,000 in the mid'80s to 40,000 today. but the decrease 
 is not only due to restrictions imposed on entering israel 
 from gaza. it is also due to the drastic curtailment of 
 demand for gazan labour in israel. with unemployment 
 in israel soaring and the construction of apartments 
 blocks virtually halted, the workers from gaza are no 
 longer really needed..."
 
 gaza's total dependence
 
 the entire economy of the gaza strip is totally dependent 
 on israel. in recent years in the gaza strip there has 
 been an increase in sub-contracted work for israeli 
 factories, mostly footware and textiles. thousands of 
 small workshops, employing an average of four workers, 
 get their raw materials or unfinished products, together 
 with detailed working instructions, from israeli factories. 
 rubinstein attributes this development to the fact that 
 "the average wage in the gaza strip is merely 40 per cent 
 of that in the west bank, which in turn stands at half the 
 average wage in israel; and besides the gazan employer 
 does not pay any social security for his employees." if 
 the average wage in the gaza strip is just a fifth of that 
 in israel, the profits of israeli factories and even of 
 palestinian sub-contractors must be vast.
 
 they are higher still when "a gazan sub-contractor 
 provides labour to be performed at home, with the 
 family's help. the livelihood of tens of thousands of 
 gazans depends on such sub-contracted work." many of 
 them are women and children, paid about ten shekels 
 ($3.50) a day which can last 12 hours or more. there can 
 be no doubt that profits from exploiting cheap gazan 
 labour are one of the reasons for the stubborn opposition 
 of rabin and other israeli ministers to withdrawal from 
 the strip.
 
 economic conditions in the gaza strip differ little from 
 what was created straight after israel's conquest [in 
 1967]. in this respect, one should not be deluded by the 
 talk, nowadays fashionable, about israeli gestures 
 intended to "encourage economic development in the 
 territories", as israeli journalists point out, all permits 
 for opening new businesses depend on a prior approval 
 by the shin bet. "behind all the professed goodwill there 
 is no desire to solve problems, just the attitude of a good 
 colonialist, willing to do something for the benefit of the 
 natives, but on condition that they behave nicely, do not 
 become rebellious, and never do anything against the 
 interests of the metropolis, its economic interests 
 included," wrote michal sela in davar in february. the 
 development of sub-contracted work in the gaza strip 
 accords perfectly with sela's diagnosis.
 
 sela also shows how exactly the economic controls work. 
 "in all branches of the economy, lobbies have been set in 
 motion for purposes of freeing israeli production from 
 the threat of any palestinian competition. the method is 
 simplicity itself. as soon as any israeli producer succeeds 
 in persuading the government, or even the trade and 
 industry minister alone, a military order is issued 
 prohibiting the export of a given produce to israel. if this 
 does not suffice, a palestinian factory may be denied a 
 licence to operate or bureaucratic obstacles may paralyse 
 its production." among the most active of such lobbies is 
 the agricultural one. it has succeeded in limiting exports 
 of gazan vegetables (except for those grown by settlers) 
 not only to israel but also to europe, where they 
 otherwise might compete with israeli exports.
 
 perpetuaring apartheid
 
 labour's goal is to perpetuate this apartheid regime in 
 the territories. the same goal is shared by the us, which 
 otherwise could not support the labour government so 
 firmly. in my view one of the reasons the us feels 
 happier about supporting labour than likud is its 
 greater efficiency in pursuing the settlement drive. this 
 point was brought home by ofer shelah in ma'ariv, who 
 deplored the settlers' failure which he attributed to 
 likud's inefficiency. he showed that the peak yearly 
 settlement growth "occured during the term of office of 
 the national unity government (i.e. 1984-90) in which 
 rabin served throughout as the defence minister". 
 likud's reputation for settling the territories better than 
 labour is false, attributable to the many tiny settlements 
 without strategic value founded under shamir for 
 symbolic reasons.
 
 to sum up: labour's policy, unconditionally supported by 
 the us differs from that of likud primarily in the 
 efficiency with which it is implemented. according to 
 that policy the territories are to be divided into two 
 parts. the major part is to be ruled by israel directly, 
 and the minor part indirectly. in my view, this racist 
 scheme is doomed to ultimately fail, but at a horrifying 
 price in human suffering. the sooner its true nature is 
 recognised, the less suffering it may cause.
 
 ************************************
 
 
 