	<39298@optima.cs.arizona.edu>
 nntp-posting-host: po4.andrew.cmu.edu
 in-reply-to: <39298@optima.cs.arizona.edu>
 
  
 some articles on the topic: 
 
 
 rtw  12/23 0859  gulf arabs demand iran withdrawal from islands 
 
  (eds: updates with end of summit details, quotes) 
     by youssef azmeh 
     abu dhabi, dec 23, reuter - gulf arab states, emerging from a summit
 that restored 
 their unity after almost three months of crisis, piled pressure on iran
 on wednesday to 
 reverse its virtual annexation of a strategic gulf island. 
     they issued a statement after a three-day gulf cooperation council
 summit saying iran 
 had to show proof of its good neighbourly intentions by rescinding
 measures that "rocked 
 gulf stability and security." 
     the leaders avoided the anti-iranian rhetoric of recent statements
 by egypt, which 
 engineered a last minute settlement of a border row between saudi arabia
 and qatar that 
 allowed all members to attend the summit. 
     egypt said its fears about iranian intentions in the region and
 tehran's alleged 
 encouragement of moslem fundamentalist unrest were largely behind
 president hosni 
 mubarak's mediation. 
     the gcc statement stressed that developing relations between the
 gulf arab states and 
 iran "is linked to enhacing confidence and to measures iran might take
 in line with its 
 commitment to the principle of good neighbourliness and the respect of
 the sovreignty and 
 territorial integrity of the region's states." 
     it denounced iran's measures on the island of abu musa, which it
 shares with the 
 united arab emirates, and the continued occupation of the greater and
 lesser tumbs 
 islands. 
     iran earlier this year extended its control over abu musa beyond a
 small garrison it 
 established there in 1971 under an agreement with the uae emirate of sharjah. 
     it has since rescinded orders expelling foreigners who worked on the
 island for the 
 uae government. but diplomats say it continues to exercise its authority
 over the whole 
 island, which the uae sess as as virtual annexation. 
     the tumbs were occupied by the former shah of iran in 1971 and the
 uae has since the 
 abu musa crisis erupted insisted that they have to be returned as part
 of a general 
 settlement. 
     the gcc leaders called on the u.n. to maintain sanctions against
 iraq for not fully 
 implementing security council resolutions following its 1990 invasion of
 kuwait. 
     they endorsed once again the "damascus declaration," a pact signed
 with egypt and 
 syria after their troops took part in the u.s. led alliance that drove
 iraqi troops out of 
 kuwait. 
     but delegates said the leaders were unable to agree the details of a
 fund they 
 announced they would create at their last summit in kuwait last year
 which would have 
 helped egypt's and syria's economic development programme. 
     they said the leaders could not agree on a breakdown of
 contributions from each state 
 although the total amount had been scaled down to $6 billion from the
 $10 billion agreed 
 last year. 
     the fact that the leaders of all gcc states -- saudi arabia,
 bahrain, kuwait, oman and 
 qatar -- attended the summit was seen as a major achievement although
 their unity was only 
 maintained with outside help. 
     most delegations were not too worried for the moment about the slow
 progress of the 
 conservative rulers discussions on a future security structure for the
 region that boasts 
 the bulk of global oil and gas reserves. 
     the leaders were unable to choose between two proposals. 
     one put forward by a summit committee headed by oman's sultan qaboos
 to create a 
 100,000-man rapid deployment force that could rush to defend any member
 against external 
 aggression, such as iraq's invasion of kuwait. 
     another was a saudi-supported plan to expand the existing 10,000-man
 "peninsula 
 shield" force which had so far played a largely symbolic role and is
 commanded by a saudi 
 general. 
     little headway was made on plans for a reginal common market
 although the summit 
 called for concrete proposals to be submitted to next year's summit due
 to be held in 
 saudi arabia next december. 
  reuter ya dya djg 
 
 
 
 rtw  12/23 0835  gulf leaders end summit 
 
     abu dhabi, dec 23, reuter - gulf arab states ended a three-day
 annual summit on 
 wednesday with an appeal to iran to end its occupation of three
 strategic gulf islands as 
 a condition for restoring friendly ties across the gulf. 
     a joint statement issued after the summit, marked by relief over the
 settlement of a 
 row between two gulf cooperation council members, also called for
 continued u.n. sanctions 
 against iraq. 
     it said baghdad had failed to implement key security council
 decisions following the 
 expulsion of its troops from kuwait early last year. 
     the summit broke no new ground on steps to achieve a gulf common
 market, but called on 
 officials to present a plan for common external tarrifs for all six
 members to the next 
 summit which will be held in saudi arabia in december 1993. 
     the statement stressed that developing relations between the gulf
 arab states and iran 
 "is linked to enhacing confidence and to measures iran might take in
 line with its 
 commitment to the principle of good neighbourliness and the respect of
 the sovreignty and 
 territorial integrity of the region's states." 
     it denounced iran's measures on the island of abu musa, which it
 shares with the 
 united arab emirates, and the continued occupation of the smaller
 islands, the greater and 
 lesser tumbs. 
     it expressed deep regret and extreme concern for the unjustified
 iranian measures 
 which contradict a proclaimed wish to develop relations and called on
 iran to rescind 
 those measures and end the occupation which it said was "shaking peace
 and stability in 
 the area." 
     iran earlier this year extended its control over abu musa beyond a
 small garrison it 
 established there in 1971 under an agreement with the uae emirate of sharjah. 
     it has since rescinded orders expelling foreigners who worked on the
 island for the 
 uae government but diplomats in the region say that its security forces
 continue to 
 exercise their authority over the whole island. 
     the uae has seen this as virtual annexation. 
     the tumbs were occupied by the former shah of iran in 1971 and the
 uae has since the 
 abu musa crisis erupted insisted that they have to be returned as part
 of a general 
 settlement. 
  reuter ya dya djg 
 
 
 rtw  12/26 1441  iran hints it ready to go to war over islands 
 
  (eds: updates with snsc statement) 
     nicosia, dec 26, reuter - iran told its gulf arab neighbours on
 saturday it was ready 
 to defend militarily three disputed islands, reminding them of its
 eight-year war with 
 iraq. 
     "our eight-year defence (in the 1980-88 iran-iraq war) has proved to
 the world that 
 our brave nation will never hesitate to defend the sovereignty and
 safeguard the 
 territorial integrity of iran," iran's supreme national security council
 (snsc) said. 
     a meeting of the heads of the six-nation gulf cooperation council
 voiced full support 
 on wednesday for the united arab emirates (uae) in its dispute with iran
 over the gulf 
 islands of abu musa, greater tumb and lesser tumb. 
     the move has triggered strong iranian criticism and warnings.
 besides the uae, the gcc 
 also groups bahrain, kuwait, oman, qatar and saudi arabia. 
     iranian president akbar hashemi rafsanjani, who chaired the snsc's
 meeting on 
 saturday, said during his friday prayer sermon at tehran university:
 "iran is surely 
 stronger than the likes of you. to reach these islands one has to cross
 a sea of blood." 
     the snsc, quoted by the official iranian news agency irna received
 in cyprus, also 
 criticised the gcc and described its support of the uae as "irresponsible." 
    "no country will ever be able to covet even an inch of iranian soil,"
 said the snsc. 
     earlier on saturday, the english language tehran times, believed to
 be close to the 
 foreign ministry, said the uae should be aware that iran's
 self-restraint had certain 
 limits. 
     it dismissed a uae claim to the islands as unfounded and said a 1971
 agreement to 
 share abu musa with the uae emirate of sharjah still applied. 
     "the idea of abu dhabi officials that tehran would always refrain
 from responding to 
 the blows inflicted by them was "childish," tehran times said. 
     irna said the newspaper was commenting on the gcc statement which
 urged iran to 
 reverse what it says is the annexation of abu musa island and to pull
 out of the two other 
 islands. 
     iran says the islands near the entrance to the gulf have
 historically belonged to it. 
 the dispute flared this year after iran tightened its control over abu musa. 
  reuter af jch 
 
 rtw  12/28 1011  tehran paper wants iran revive claim to bahrain 
 
     tehran, dec 28, reuter - radical iranian newspapers, angered by gulf
 arab claims to 
 three disputed islands, are hitting back with demands that tehran revive
 its claim to 
 bahrain and consider improving ties with iraq. 
     president akbar hashemi rafsanjani and senior officials strongly
 condemned a statement 
 last week by leaders of the gulf cooperation council (gcc) backing the
 united arab 
 emirates (uae) in its dispute with iran over the gulf islands. 
     but the newspapers salam and jomhuri eslami demanded that tehran go
 further than 
 restating its resolve to defend its sovereignty over the islands of abu
 musa, greater tumb 
 and lesser tumb. 
     "it is not very clear why the sheikh of bahrain has joined the
 others," jomhuri eslami 
 said. the gcc groups bahrain, kuwait, oman, qatar, saudi arabia and the uae. 
     "if historical records are to be the criterion, the sheikh of
 bahrain should go about 
 his own business and the rule of iranian people in bahrain, which
 belonged to iran until 
 1970, should be re-established," the paper said. 
     "it is fitting for the foreign ministry to raise the question of
 iran's sovereignty 
 over bahrain...and start a serious and effective drive to end the
 separation of bahrain 
 from iran," it added. 
     the late shah of iran relinquished iran's claim to bahrain in 1970,
 a year before the 
 island became an independent state. 
     iranian leaders since the 1979 islamic revolution have carefully
 avoided raising the 
 bahrain issue although it is occasionally brought up in the press during
 periods of 
 tension with conservative arab states across the gulf. 
     salam newspaper said the gcc stand showed that the policy of
 appeasing pro-western 
 gulf arab rulers had backfired. 
     "no matter how much you smile at sheikhs on the southern coast of
 the persian gulf, it 
 is the united states and the west which speak the last word," it said. 
     "they (the sheikhs) are nobody," salam said, adding that iran should
 revise its policy 
 towards its neighbours, especially its former war enemy iraq. 
     "disregarding the logical potential of expanding ties with
 iraq...and going along with 
 some saudi-backed trends among the iraqi opposition have played a role
 in the formation of 
 the current situation," the paper said. 
     ties between iran and iraq, which fought a war from 1980 to 1988,
 improved briefly 
 after iraq invaded kuwait in 1990. 
     but tehran, which denounced the invasion and remained neutral in the
 ensuing war, 
 again called for president saddam hussein's overthrow when he suppressed
 a shi'ite moslem 
 revolt which swept southern iraq after his 1991 defeat in kuwait. 
  reuter sij mz aet 
 
 
   
 