
 in article <2befdde2.11370@news.service.uci.edu> tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (tim clock) writes:
 
 >you are right to notice my assumptions. i should have used "bosnian 
 >serbs" (and serbia) and "bosnian muslims" in my post.
 
 how quaint of you to point this out, and then to completely ignore
 all of the blatant lies you've trotted out. the scenario and genocide 
 staged by the armenians 78 years ago in eastern anatolia and x-soviet
 armenia is being reenacted again - this time in azerbaijan. there are 
 remarkable similarities between the plots, the perpetrators, and the 
 underdogs. 
 
 remember, in article <2bac262d.25249@news.service.uci.edu>, you have 
 blatantly lied and still have not corrected yourself.
 
 >the goltz article was not published in the sunday times magazine
 >on march 1, 1992, but in the guardian sunday section. the story was 
 >not filed frim agdam but from london. 
 
 i'll let the rest of the net judge this on its own merits.
 
 source: 'the sunday times,' 1 march 1992 (a british weekly, written by 
         thomas goltz, from agdam, azerbaijan.)
 
     armenian soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families.
 
     the spiralling  violence gripping the  outer republics of  the former
 soviet union gained new impetus  yesterday with cold-blooded slaughter of
 hundreds of women and children in war-racked nagorno-karabakh.
     survivors  reported that  armenian soldiers  shot and  bayoneted more
 than 450  azeris, many of  them women and  children, who were  fleeing an
 attack  on their  town. hundreds,  possibly thousands,  were missing  and
 feared dead.
     the attackers  killed most of  the soldiers and  volunteers defending
 the women  and children.  they then  turned their  guns on  the terrified
 refugees. the few  survivors later described what  happened:" that's when
 the real  slaughter began," said  azer hajiev,  one of three  soldiers to
 survive. "the  armenians just shot and  shot. and then they  came in and
 started carving up people with their bayonets and knives."
     " they were shooting, shooting, shooting", echoed rasia aslanova, who
 arrived in agdam with other women and children who made their way through
 armenian lines. she said her husband, kayun, and a son-in-law were killed
 in front of her. her daughter was still missing.
     one boy who arrived in agdam had an ear sliced off.
 
     the survivors  said 2000  others, some of  whom had  fled separately,
 were still missing in the gruelling terrain; many could perish from their
 wounds or the cold.
     by late  yesterday, 479 deaths had  been registered at the  morgue in
 agdam's morgue,  and 29 bodies  had been buried  in the cemetery.  of the
 seven corpses  i saw awaiting  burial, two  were children and  three were
 women, one shot through the chest at point blank range.
     agdam hospital was  a scene of carnage and terror.  doctors said they
 had 140 patients who escaped slaughter, most with bullet injuries or deep
 stab wounds.
     nor were they safe in agdam. on friday night rockets fell on the city
 which  has a  population  of 150,000,  destroying  several buildings  and
 killing one person.
 
 now wait, there is more.
 
            it's inhumane to ignore this violence
 
 the stories of survivors of karabag massacre:
 
 69 year old hatin nine telling:
 
 -''my twin grandchildren were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. they told
 me: we won't kill you. but the babies have to die in front of your eyes.''
 
 72 year old huseyin ibrahimoglu:
 
 - ''our turkish village in khojalu town was blown up in two hours.
   while killing children and babies mercilessly they said: you are
   turks, you must die.''
 
 28 year old gulsum huseyin:
 
 - ''they bayonetted my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of
     my eyes.''
 
 are these stories lies? have the eye-witnesses been day-dreaming?
 were these stories forged by turkish journalists in the region?
 
 the nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of british
 journalists, too. two days before we had quoted from a sunday times
 article. they[british] reported the events in karabag even before
 turkish journalists. what is more here are the pictures. pictures
 of people who were bayonetted, whose eyes were gouged, ears cut off.
 
 even the armenian radio couldn't claim these "lies." they are saying
 "exaggeration." that means ''somethings'' have happened but the
 situation is not as bad as reported. perhaps that village of khojalu
 town was destroyed in 4 hours, instead of 2... or gulsum huseyin's
 3 year old daughter was bayonetted in her chest instead of stomach...
 
 the massacre is clearly seen with all its dimensions. the effects of
 this massacre on karabag and environs cannot be reduced by any word.
 
 some of the western press', led by some french newspapers, ability
 to ''close their eyes'' is nothing but complicity in this massacre.
 
 yesterday we gave samples from le figaro. until yesterday's print
 no news about the real events in karabag were printed. so were the
 french tv channels.. the subject they considered related to karabag
 was ''the necessity of protecting armenians against azeri attacks.''
 
 the age we are living in is termed a human rights age. there are lots
 of organizations such as united nations and csce(conference on security
 and cooperation in europe), and rules, all designed to fight against human
 rights violations. international reactions must be made with international
 cooperation. with support of everybody and every organization claiming
 to be civilized.
 
 could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the
 right to live -and with such levels of barbarity and cruelty-? where
 is the cooperation? where are the reactions? and the intellectuals,
 journalists, writers, tv stations of certain western countries such
 as france who are fast to claim leadership of "human rights?"
 where are you?
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 