
 in article <93131.085451bav2@psuvm.psu.edu> boris a. veytsman <bav2@psuvm.psu.edu> writes:
 
 >maybe the following example helps. it is understandable that the
 >views of a-gic are his alone. nevertheless any independent or
 
 'alone'? sorry, but the following western scholars are forced to disagree 
 with you. during the first world war and the ensuing years - 1914-1920, 
 the armenians through a premeditated and systematic genocide, 
 tried to complete its centuries-old policy of annihilation against 
 the turks and kurds by savagely murdering 2.5 million muslims and 
 deporting the rest from their 1,000 year homeland.
 
 the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance
 of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
 this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians, government
 and international political leaders, such as u.s. ambassador mark 
 bristol, william langer, ambassador layard, james barton, stanford 
 shaw, arthur chester, john dewey, robert dunn, papazian, nalbandian, 
 ohanus appressian, jorge blanco villalta, general nikolayef, general 
 bolkovitinof, general prjevalski, general odiselidze, meguerditche, 
 kazimir, motayef, twerdokhlebof, general hamelin, rawlinson, avetis
 aharonian, dr. stephan eshnanie, varandian, general bronsart, arfa,
 dr. hamlin, boghos nubar, sarkis atamian, katchaznouni, rachel 
 bortnick, halide edip, mccarthy, w. b. allen, paul muratoff and many 
 others.
 
 j. c. hurewitz, professor of government emeritus, former director of
 the middle east institute (1971-1984), columbia university.
 
 bernard lewis, cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history,
 princeton university.
 
 halil inalcik, university professor of ottoman history & member of
 the american academy of arts & sciences, university of chicago.
 
 peter golden, professor of history, rutgers university, newark.
 
 stanford shaw, professor of history, university of california at
 los angeles.
 
 thomas naff, professor of history & director, middle east research
 institute, university of pennsylvania.
 
 ronald jennings, associate professor of history & asian studies,
 university of illinois.
 
 howard reed, professor of history, university of connecticut.
 
 dankwart rustow, distinguished university professor of political
 science, city university graduate school, new york.
 
 john woods, associate professor of middle eastern history, 
 university of chicago.
 
 john masson smith, jr., professor of history, university of
 california at berkeley.
 
 alan fisher, professor of history, michigan state university.
 
 avigdor levy, professor of history, brandeis university.
 
 andreas g. e. bodrogligetti, professor of history, university of california
 at los angeles.
 
 kathleen burrill, associate professor of turkish studies, columbia university.
 
 roderic davison, professor of history, george washington university.
 
 walter denny, professor of history, university of massachusetts.
 
 caesar farah, professor of history, university of minnesota.
 
 tom goodrich, professor of history, indiana university of pennsylvania.
 
 tibor halasi-kun, professor emeritus of turkish studies, columbia university.
 
 justin mccarthy, professor of history, university of louisville.
 
 jon mandaville, professor of history, portland state university (oregon).
 
 robert olson, professor of history, university of kentucky.
 
 madeline zilfi, professor of history, university of maryland.
 
 james stewart-robinson, professor of turkish studies, university of michigan.
 
 .......so the list goes on and on and on.....
 
 as for the genocide of the azeri people by the armenians:
 
 source: channel 4 news at 19.00, monday 2 march 1992.
 2 french journalists have seen 32 corpses of men, women and children 
 in civilian clothes. many of them shot dead from their heads as close 
 as less than 1 meter.
 
 source: bbc1 morning news at 07.37, tuesday 3 march 1992.
 bbc reporter was live on line and he claimed that he saw more than 100
 bodies of azeri men, women and children as well as a baby who are shot
 dead from their heads from a very short distance.
 
 source: bbc1 morning news at 08:12, tuesday 3 march 1992.
 very disturbing picture has shown that many civilian corpses who were 
 picked up from mountain. reporter said he, cameraman and western 
 journalists have seen more than 100 corpses, who are men, women, 
 children, massacred by armenians. they have been shot dead from their 
 heads as close as 1 meter. picture also has shown nearly ten bodies 
 (mainly women and children) are shot dead from their heads. azerbaijan 
 claimed that more than 1000 civilians massacred by armenian forces.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 