
 in article <c6x44y.3xd@cbfsb.cb.att.com> sadek@cbnewsg.cb.att.com (mohamed.s.sadek) writes:
 >
 >i like what mr. joseph biden had to say yesterday 5/11/93 in the senate.
 >
 >condemening the european lack of action and lack of support to us plans 
 >and calling that "moral rape".
 >
 >he went on to say that the reason for that is "out right religious bigotry"
 
 parts of sen. biden's statement were quoted by the washington post today:
 
    let me put it plainly, mr. secretary.  you are required to speak
    diplomatically; i am not.  i cannot even begin to express to you
    my contempt for a european policy that is now asking us to 
    participate in what amounts to a codification of the serbian victory.
    ...
    what you have encountered is a discouraging mosaic of indifference,
    timidity, self-delusion and hypocrisy.
    ...
    after they held our coats on kuwait and somalia, they are asking us
    to put in a few thousand troops on the ground in order to have the
    right to speak and in order to implement their new idea of 'safe
    havens' for the bosnians...
    let's not mince words.  european policy is based on cultural and
    religious indifference, if not bigotry.  and i think it's fair to say
    that this would be an entirely different situation if the muslims
    were doing what the serbs have done, if this was muslim aggression
    instead of serbian aggression.
 
 too bad the washington post did not include his next sentence, which 
 pointed out that a consequence of such policy is a rising anger
 within the islamic world, the consequences of which we cannot begin
 to predict.  later, biden told a reporter why he spoke out:
 
    i think someone has to respond to europe to make it clear
    this is a big deal... so they will understand.
 
 and it is a big deal.  by refusing the fundamental human right of
 self-defense to bosnia-herzegovina, europe and the world have 
 aided the serbian aggression.  moreover, the arms embargo has
 forced a situation in which bosnian serbs have 10 times more heavy
 weaponry than bosnian croats and muslims combined.  under such
 conditions, it is very easy for serbs to play a "divide-and-conquer"
 game, and to get the muslims and croats (who have strong common
 interests and who were allied against the serbian aggression) 
 to start fighting each other, which leads to their mutual catastrophe.
 
 one final quote:  u.s. secretary of state, warren christopher, has
 said in rome last week that "in practice, the embargo had the opposite
 effect intended.  it made aggression certain."
 
 all diplomats who deluded themselves that they could negotiate peace
 while enforcing a 10:1 imbalance of power on the ground have contributed
 to this tragedy.
 
 
 sincerely,
 -josip
 
 
 
 
 
 