
 
                            the enemy within
                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                         by robert i. friedman
          the village voice, may 11, 1993, vol. xxxviii no. 19
 
         | how the  anti-defamation league  turned the notion |
         | of human rights on its head, spying  on  progress- |
         | ives and  funneling information to law enforcement |
 
 
 roy bullock wanted to be a spy since he was a teenager in indiana and
 read "i led three lives," herbert philbrick's cold war saga of
 penetrating the communist party for the fbi.  philbrick had become an
 american folk hero in the 1950s for building dossiers on unsuspecting
 colleagues.  it was a time when hollywood produced more than 30 films
 portraying the informer as the quintessential american patriot.  in
 boston, where philbrick led three lives as an fbi informant, communist
 party member, and private citizen, the mayor even proclaimed a herbert
 philbrick day and presented the spy with a plaque.
 
 for bullock, a shy young man who was coming to terms with his
 homosexuality in the straight-arrow '50s, the life of a double agent
 was the perfect way to hide his lifestyle while fighting the communist
 menace.
 
 "i was fascinated with herbert philbrick," bullock recently told
 federal investigators, "and so i thought i would try to infiltrate the
 communist part.  in 1957, i went to the sixth world youth and student
 festival in moscow with the american delegation.  i gave them [the fbi
 a full report on it when i returned, along with some photos i took of
 some soviet military vehicles."
 
 bullock was hooked.  for the next two years, he worked as an unpaid
 informant for the fbi.  but he found his true calling when he became a
 paid spy for the anti-defamation league in 1960.  now his activities
 are at the center of the biggest domestic spy scandal in recent
 american history -- a scandal that may end with the adl's criminal
 indictment in san francisco.
 
 over a 30-year period, he compiled computer files for the adl on 9876
 individuals and more than 950 groups of all political stripes,
 including the naacp, the rainbow coalition, aclu, the american indian
 movement, the center for investigative reporting, pacifica, act up,
 palestinian and arab groups, sandinista solidarity groups, americans
 for peace now, and anti-apartheid organizations.  bullock, who even
 spied on the recently slain south african nationalist chris hani when
 he visited the bay area in april 1991, sold many of his adl files on
 anti-apartheid activists to south african intelligence.  meanwhile,
 between 1985 and 1993, the adl paid him nearly $170,000, using a
 prominent beverly hills attorney as a conduit in order to conceal its
 financial relationship with bullock.
 
 last month, police raided adl offices in los angeles and san
 francisco, as well as bullock's home, confiscating computer files and
 boxes of documents.  according to court records, bullock's files
 contained the driver's license and vehicle registration information,
 in addition to criminal histories on individuals -- much of which was
 allegedly stolen from the fbi and police computers.  bullock, 58, told
 the fbi that copies of virtually everything in his computer data base
 had been given to the san francisco adl office.  "based on the
 evidence," says inspector ron roth, in a police affidavit, "i believe
 that roy bullock and adl had numerous peace officers supplying them
 with confidential criminal and dmv information."
 
 what's more, the san francisco d.a. is investigating bullock for
 tapping phones, accessing answering machines, and assuming false
 identities to infiltrate organizations.  documents seized from
 bullock's home also contained evidence of his forays into bay area
 trash cans: he had the names and phone numbers of employees at the
 christic institute in san francisco, as well as telephone message
 slips to staff members (including names and phone numbers of callers),
 office correspondence listing the names and return addresses of the
 senders, and inter-office memos.  he also had receipts from christic
 institute's bank accounts at wells fargo and eureka federal savings,
 as well as itemized canceled checks with the names of the payees, the
 dates, and amounts.  bullock even knew the balance in the christic
 institute's checking account.
 
 investigations by the fbi and police in san francisco have revealed
 that the adl has shared at least some of its spy gathering material
 with israeli government officials.  what's more, israel apparently used
 tips from the adl to detain palestinian americans who travelled there.
 
                             *     *     *
 
 the adl was established in new york city in 1913 to defend jews, and
 later other minority groups, from discrimination.  it led the fight
 against racist and fascist groups like the ku klux klan and the
 american nazi party, and in the 1960s championed the civil rights
 movement.
 
 but there was also a darker side.  in the late 1940s, the adl spied on
 leftists and communists, and shared investigative files with the house
 committee on un-american activities and the fbi.  the adl swung
 sharply to the right during the reagan administration, becoming a
 bastion of neoconservatism.  to irwin suall, a repentant trotskyite
 who heads the adl's powerful fact finding department, the real danger
 to jews is posed not by the right -- but by a coalition of leftists,
 blacks, and arabs, who in his view threaten the fabric of democracy in
 america, as well as the state of israel.  in the tradition of his
 ideological soulmate william casey, suall directed the adl's vast
 network of informants, who were given code names like "scumbag,"
 "ironside," and -- for a spy reportedly posing as a priest in atlanta
 -- "flipper."
 
 for years, journalists and liberal members of the jewish community
 knew the adl spied on right-wing hate groups.  as long as the targets
 were anti-semitic organizations like the liberty lobby and lyndon
 larouche, no one seemed to be particularly troubled.  but the bullock
 case reveals that the adl also spied on groups that have a nonviolent,
 and progressive orientation.  this apparent massive violation of civil
 liberties may end with the adl's criminal indictment in san francisco,
 where the investigation began.  the human rights group faces possible
 criminal prosecution on as many as 48 felony counts, including an
 indictment for gaining illegal access to police computers.  says one
 source close to the west coast investigation, "it is 99 per cent
 certain that the adl will be indicted."
 
 in the wake of the san francisco investigation, police probes of adl
 spying are spreading to other parts of the country.  "we have received
 numerous complaints about adl [spying]," says sam adams, a
 spokesperson for the mayor's office in portland, oregon.
 
 on april 16, the harlem-based black united fund of new york, and
 african american self-help group that bullock allegedly spied on,
 wrote district attorney robert morgenthau, requesting "an immediate
 investigation" of the adl.  "the adl's actions cause great concern, as
 it is a direct and flagrant violation -- at minimum -- of our civil
 rights....we call upon you to join with the district attorney of san
 francisco to...bring and end to this latest form of mccarthyism."
 
 gerald mckelvey, a spokesperson for morgenthau's office, says, "we
 have no evidence before us that warrants any sort of investigation."
 mckelvey adds that morgenthau offered to assist the fbi and the san
 francisco d.a.'s office on their pending investigation.  "they have
 not, so far, asked for our assistance."
 
 the adl acknowledges sharing information on violence-prone groups with
 law enforcement officials.  it also admits to maintaining extensive
 files on a wide variety of organizations, but says, in a two-page
 press release, "the vast majority of adl's files are composed of news
 clips, magazine articles, books, journals, and other documents...."
 
 "adl has made it clear that it does not and will not countenance
 violations of the law on the part of anyone connected with the agency,
 and the process by which the league gathers information is presently
 under review to insure that no laws are being violated."
 
 that's what the adl says for public consumption.  but morale is so low
 that its employees complain of sleepless nights and crying fits.  and
 even as other jewish groups circle the wagons around the adl in a show
 of solidarity, many do so holding their noses.  more than a few jewish
 officials privately say the adl has to decide whether it is a human
 rights group or a secret police agency.
 
 "the adl is regarded both inside the jewish community and outside the
 jewish community as the definitive source of information on anti-
 semitism and extremist groups," says daniel levitas, the former
 executive director of the center for democratic renewal, an atlanta-
 based group that monitors anti-semitism, racism, and hate groups.
 "one of the things this scandal has done is that it has completely
 tainted the adl's credibility and reputation with regard to its
 objectivity.  this scandal is going to be a devastating blow to the
 jewish community at large because people regard the adl as synonymous
 with american jewry."
 
                             *     *     *
 
 bullock's talents as a snoop and his extreme conservatism meshed well
 with the adl's cold war worldview.  in 1960, he moved to southern
 california where he became an adl spy for $75.00 a week.  bullock
 almost always used his real name when snooping, although he once
 called himself elmer fink when corresponding with supporters of
 alabama governor george wallace.  bullock provided the adl's office in
 los angeles with written reports, which were transmitted to fact
 finding department head irwin suall, according to court records.
 under suall's stewardship, fact finding department had become the
 adl's heart and soul.  located at adl national headquarters across
 from the united nations, the department had assembled a vast library
 on "hate groups," culling material from publications, speeches, and
 informants reports.
 
 bullock was more than adept at leading a double life.  not long after
 moving to california, he ingratiated himself with a woman in the john
 birch society who helped him gain access to the group's boston office.
 there, he found a file the right-wingers were keeping on the adl.  the
 discovery gave rise to speculation in the adl new york office that
 they had somehow been penetrated by the birchers.
 
 bullock focused almost exclusively on right-wing extremist groups
 until the early 1970s when adl l.a. head milton sinn was replaced by
 harvey schechter, who encouraged him to target the left as well.  a
 few years later, bullock moved to the castro district in san francisco
 where he posed as an art dealer.  and adl fact finder who had
 infiltrated the local arab community had just been exposed.  when the
 ensuing scandal died down, bullock was ordered by the adl to penetrate
 the arabs.
 
 the adl was especially concerned about the american-arab anti-
 discrimination committee, founded by the former south dakota senator
 james abourezk to combat arab-bashing.  in a page out of the cia's
 dirty tricks handbook on penetration and destabilization, bullock
 joined the adc, and then recruited nazis into the group, apparently
 trying to discredit it, according to published reports.
 
 in 1987, the adl sent bullock to attend the national association of
 arab americans annual congress in washington.  according to court
 documents, bullock was told to find the source of the group's funds.
 bullock was unable to "follow the money."  but he did such a good job
 at ingratiating himself that he was appointed to head a naaa
 delegation that visited congress member nancy pelosi.
 
 it's not surprising that the adl penetrated arab organizations.  but
 only acute paranoia explains their interest in groups like act up.  as
 far as bullock was concerned, gay groups in san francisco were heavily
 infiltrated by what he called "gay left revolutionaries," prompting
 him to write about their activities for the adl.
 
 bullock soon expanded his horizons, moving into the shadowy realm of
 foreign espionage after richard hirschhaut, the head of adl's san
 francisco office, introduced him to thomas gerard in 1986.  gerard was
 then a detective with the san francisco police department's
 intelligence unit.  gerard had worked as a demolitions expert for the
 cia in el salvador in the early 1980s, where he apparently had more
 than a passing interest in right-wing death squads.  (police searching
 gerard's briefcase found extensive cia literature about torture and
 interrogation, photos of blindfolded and chained men, as well as
 passports made out to gerard in 10 different names, including thomas
 clouseau.  from a remote jungle island redoubt in the philippines
 where he fled last november, gerard told the los angeles times that he
 will blow the lid off the cia's involvement with latin american death
 squads if he is indicted in the adl spy case.)
 
 after their very first encounter in the adl office, gerard and bullock
 had lunch at mcdonald's, "i liked tom right off," bullock later told a
 san francisco police investigator whose report of the interrogation
 was obtained by the _voice_.  "tom is a very charming, roguish
 character, with a great deal of integrity.  let me say here, i
 consider tom gerard one of the finest policemen i've ever worked
 with, absolutely.  honest, capable, intelligent and 100 percent
 american."
 
 before long, bullock was providing gerard with confidential adl
 reports on various groups and individuals.  in turn, gerard gave
 bullock classified police intelligence files on local arab americans,
 skinheads, and others.  bullock told the fbi that gerard's material
 ended up in his adl reports.  "i would say 99 percent of the data that
 i got was name, address, and sometimes physical description.  criminal
 history, very rarely," bullock told investigators.  gerard also gave
 bullock a chart that outlined a vast network of bay area arab american
 businessmen and organizations that allegedly has ties to middle east
 terror groups, as well as surveillance photos of arab americans
 receiving weapons training overseas.  bullock claims that u.s. customs
 in new york gave gerard the photos.  "it was understood that bullock
 would be very careful with what he did with the information gerard
 gave him, and that bullock would not release it except to the adl or
 other law enforcement officers," says an fbi report.
 
 there was nothing unusual about bullock's cozy relationship with law
 enforcement.  by the mid-1980s, the adl was swapping files with
 hundreds of "official friends," the organization's euphemism for u.s.
 law enforcement and intelligence sources.  the adl's relationship with
 the fbi's counterterrorism office was so close that adl's reports on
 arab american group's covert ties to middle east terrorists were "must
 reading."
 
 it's no accident that police found a 1986 classified fbi report
 entitled "popular front for the liberation of palestine (pflp)--new
 york area" while searching the adl's san francisco office.  in 1987,
 adl spooks investigated seven palestinians and a kenyan studying in
 california universities on student visas.  when the adl discovered
 they were disseminating pflp literature, it informed the fbi, which in
 turn took the case to the immigration and naturalization service.
 after the ins ordered the students deported as subversives, adl
 regional director david lehrer gloated in the _los angeles times_
 about his office's cooperation with law enforcement, although he's
 backpedaling now.  the "los angeles 8" deportation is still under
 appeal.
 
                             *     *     *
 
 while the adl worked quietly with america's top cops, it enjoyed
 similar ties with israel's spy agencies -- a charge that adl leaders
 vehemently deny.  but as early as july 7, 1961, adl director benjamin
 epstein wrote to b'nai b'rith executive secretary saul joftes,
 requesting $25,000 for his investigators.  "our information," he
 boasted to joftes, "in addition to being essential for our own
 operations, has been of great value and service to both the united
 states department and the israeli government.  all data have been made
 available to both countries with full knowledge to each that we are
 the source."
 
 in 1987, the adl came under fbi scrutiny in the wake of the pollard
 spy scandal.  while assigned to the navy's anti-terrorist alert
 center, where he had access to the most closely guarded u.s. secrets,
 jonathan pollard stole thousands of pages of classified documents for
 israel, which, according to federal prosecutors, "could fill a room
 the size of a large closet...ten feet by six feet by six feet."
 pollard's handler was avi sella, an israeli air force colonel whose
 wife worked for the new york adl as a lawyer.  pollard later wrote to
 friends that a prominent adl leader was deeply involved in the israeli
 spy operation.
 
 while there is no proof that anyone connected with the adl was
 involved with pollard, there is evidence that the adl freely passes
 information to israeli intelligence.  in march 1993, the fbi
 interrogated david gurvitz, an adl fact finder in los angeles until
 1992 when he was fired by suall for illegally obtaining police
 information to use against a rival at the simon wiesenthal center.
 the fbi pointedly asked gurvitz if he had ever transmitted information
 to israel.  gurvitz admitted that in 1992 he had learned from a law
 enforcement contact that michael elias, allegedly a member of a
 radical plo faction, was scheduled to travel from san francisco
 international airport en route to haifa.  gurvitz phoned the deputy
 israeli consul general in l.a. with the information.  "later the same
 day," according to a 15-page fbi interview of gurvitz obtained by the
 _voice_, "gurvitz was called back by another man, who said he was from
 the israeli consulate, and who asked gurvitz to repeat the information
 about elias.  gurvitz did not get this man's name, but their
 conversation was in hebrew so gurvitz felt confident the man was
 actually an israeli consulate official."
 
 among the 12,000 names of private citizens that police found in adl
 files in san francisco was mohammed jarad, a 36-year-old chicago
 resident who was arrested in israel on january 25, for allegedly
 distributing hundreds of thousands of dollars to hamas, the large
 islamic fundamentalist movement in the occupied territories.  the
 chicago adl office runs at least three undercover informants who work
 with "official friends" in local law enforcement, according to
 documents released by the san francisco d.a. and sources close to the
 adl.  given these facts, arab american groups surmise that the adl has
 passed information on jarad to israeli intelligence.
 
 one technique used by the adl to monitor the large arab american
 community in the midwest was to scan the local arab press for funeral
 notices.  according to sources familiar with the practice, adl
 investigators in unmarked vans videotaped the palestinian funerals,
 which sometimes turned into plo rallies.  palestinians have been
 detained at ben-gurion airport simply on the basis of having been
 filmed attending a funeral in chicago, according to suhail miari, the
 executive director of the united holy land fund, whose cousin was an
 arab member of israel's knesset.
 
 shortly after jarad was arrested, the israeli government announced
 that hamas was being run from america with money and operational
 instructions relayed by courier or fax.  israel's charges were played
 up on the front page of _the new york times_.  according to well-
 placed sources, yehudit barsky, an adl fact finder in new york, worked
 closely with israeli officials on this campaign of vilification,
 introducing "friendly" reporters to "official friends" in chicago law
 enforcement.
 
 barsky, who is fluent in arabic, prepared an adl report about how
 hamas is funded in america.  she identified the dallas-based islamic
 association for palestine in north america as the front organization
 for hamas in the u.s.a.  "its infrastructure functions as an
 interlocking network of organizations, small businesses, and
 individual activists," says the february 1993 adl report, which
 outlines the organization's development, its activities on u.s.
 college campuses, and its "metamorphosis" during the gulf war. it
 also traces hamas fundraising through a plethora of alleged front-
 groups from plainfield, indiana, to culver city, california.  it is
 doubtful that barsky could have compiled such sophisticated data
 without the help of "official friends" and adl spies.
 
 barsky refused to comment.  but she used to talk to greg slabodkin as
 many as three times a week when he was an opposition researcher for
 aipac, whose spy operation was disclosed last summer in the _voice_.
 "the level of cooperation was very close," slabodkin said during a
 recent phone conservation from israel where he is in graduate school.
 "if we felt our files were lacking, we contacted the adl."
 
 when sha'wan jabarin, a 30-year-old palestinian human rights worker in
 the occupied territories won a $25,000 reebok human rights award in
 1990, slabodkin recalls that barsky faxed aipac the man's entire
 police file, which she had obtained from the israeli embassy.  jabarin
 had been arrested numerous times in israel, and once confessed to
 being a member of the plo after having been severely tortured.
 jabarin, who received a short jail term, became an amnesty
 international prisoner of conscience.  of course, to aipac and the
 adl, jabarin was a terrorist.  slabodkin, who was ordered to keep tabs
 on him when he was in the u.s. to receive his award, called a
 representative of al haq, the palestinian human rights group that
 employed jabarin, to obtain his itinerary.  aipac even opened a file
 on musician jackson browne, who presented jabarin with the reebok
 award.
 
 while the adl may be able to rationalize its close monitoring of
 arabs, and even left-wing gay revolutionaries, it has a far harder
 time explaining its obsession with spying on anti-apartheid activists.
 david gurvitz told the fbi that when he started working as a fact
 finder for the adl in l.a. in march 1989, adl files already bulged
 with information about the israel-south african connection and anti-
 apartheid groups.  "gurvitz confirmed that the adl did routinely
 collect information on persons engaged in anti-apartheid activities in
 the united states," says the fbi report.  while gurvitz said there
 were files in the l.a. adl office dating to the 1930s, he estimated
 the oldest material on anti-apartheid activities dates back to the
 late 1970s, paralleling begin's rise to power in israel and a
 deepening of ties between the jewish state and south africa. "in
 about august, 1992," says the report of the fbi's march 3, 1993,
 interview with gurvitz, "an anti-apartheid demonstration was held at
 the south african consulate in los angeles.  participating in the
 demonstration were the los angeles student coalition and the socialist
 workers party.  gurvitz went to two demonstration planning sessions,
 and a subsequent demonstration.  he wrote a report for the adl on each
 of the planning sessions and on the demonstration.  copies of the
 reports were disseminated to bullock, among others, in care of the san
 francisco adl office."
 
 in 1986 bullock learned that the consul general of the south african
 consulate in los angeles would be speaking in las vegas at a meeting
 organized by willis carto, the head of the anti-semitic liberty lobby.
 "suspecting that the consul general did not know who willis carto is,"
 says the fbi report, "bullock suggested to gerard that they might want
 to warn the south africans.  gerard agreed and informed the consul
 general, who canceled his appearance."
 
 a few months later, gerard phoned bullock and told him a south african
 intelligence officer wanted to meet them.  during a rendezvous in a
 hotel near fisherman's wharf, the south african said he was interested
 in acquiring information on american anti-apartheid activists.  the
 south african, who called himself mr. humphries, also asked for
 information about groups that were advocating divestments.  "gerard,
 who was present throughout the meeting," says the fbi report, "told
 humphries that he [gerard] had been employed by the cia....humphries
 offered to pay bullock $150.00 per month in exchange for information.
 bullock noted that much of the information humphries said he wanted
 was already in the possession of bullock and the adl."
 
 between 1987 and 1991, bullock sold information to south african
 intelligence, receiving steady raises, which he split evenly with
 gerard.  "bullock said it was his impression, though gerard never
 explicitly told him so, (and bullock never asked) that gerard may have
 been telling the cia about his and bullock's contacts with the south
 africans," says the fbi report.  "gerard had said he knew the cia
 'resident agent' in san francisco....once, after gerard dropped
 bullock off at bullock's residence following a meeting with louie [who
 replaced humphries as their handler], gerard said he was going to go
 to the san francisco cia office."
 
 al the while, gerard may have been "tasking" bullock for the cia.
 "bullock recalled that once, after he had met gerard, bullock went to
 chicago, illinois to conduct an investigation on behalf of the adl,"
 says the fbi report.  "the target of the investigation was a group
 called the palestine human rights campaign.  bullock learned that a
 woman [name deleted] was transporting money between the plo or the
 pflp, and the united states.  bullock told this to gerard.  gerard
 later told bullock that gerard's 'guy at the cia' would like to know
 more.  gerard asked bullock if bullock would go back to chicago to
 gather more information on the palestine human rights campaign.
 bullock, however, never did go back."
 
 gerard also seems to have had a close relationship with mossad, which
 may have started in 1991 when he went on an adl junket to israel.  the
 adl frequently sponsors trips for american law enforcement officials
 to israel, where they are wined and dined and meet their counterparts
 in various intelligence agencies.  according to an affidavit by san
 francisco police inspector roth, the "all-expense paid trip [to
 israel] was more or less a thank-you gift and a liaison gesture by the
 adl to continue the close relationships it has with specific law
 enforcement officers from the united states."
 
 gerard may have liked what he saw in israel.  a short time after
 travelling there, he went to addis ababa where he helped with mossad's
 rescue of ethiopian jews.
 
 as gerard's relationship with south africa deepened, he talked more
 openly about his exploits in the cia.  "bullock recalled gerard
 mentioning that he had been in algeria on cia business, and that
 gerard discussed the plo and 'safehouses,'" says the fbi report, "to
 this louie once responded that israeli intelligence had determined
 that the plo and the african national congress were cooperating.
 gerard also spoke of having travelled with the cia to afghanistan....
 louie also [told gerard and bullock] about his adventures inside south
 africa as an intelligence officer.  both gerard and louie traded 'war
 stories' and regaled each other and bullock with tales of 'narrow
 scrapes.'"
 
 although there is still much mystery about what triggered law
 enforcement's investigation of the adl, it was probably the theft of
 a classified fbi report on the nation of islam from the fbi's san
 francisco office.  police armed with search warrants recovered the
 report in the adl san francisco office.  gurvitz says he had sent a
 copy of it to mira boland, the director of the adl's fact finding
 division in washington, d.c.  boland was preparing an op-ed piece for
 _the washington times_, in which she argued that the nation of islam
 should not receive federal funds for the reconstruction of l.a.
 because the group is anti-semitic and violence-prone.  (boland, who
 had arranged the adl police junket to israel attended by gerard,
 testified in a 1990 criminal trial in roanoke, virginia, that she had
 worked for the cia for 14 months and later was a subcontractor for the
 defense department before joining the adl.  during the trial, boland
 admitted to sharing information with a cia official at an invitation-
 only adl conference.)
 
 after he was questioned by the fbi last fall, gerard fled to the
 philippines, which has no extradition treaty with america.  gerard is
 believed to have supplied information from police computers not only
 to the adl, but to israel and south africa as well.  the _san
 francisco examiner_ reported that gerard may be charged with violating
 federal espionage laws.
 
 although bullock worked for the adl for 30 years, and irwin suall
 praised him in a july 1992 memo as "our number one investigator," the
 adl now argues that he was a rogue agent.  in its own defense, the adl
 also asserts that its fact finders operate no differently than
 journalists.  after all, ask adl officials, don't journalists keep
 files?
 
 but the difference between the practice of journalism and the adl's
 method of gathering information couldn't be more striking.
 journalists place information in the public domain where they are held
 accountable for falsehoods, distortions, and libel.  and for the most
 part, journalists don't share their investigative files with foreign
 and domestic police agencies.  the adl has no such inhibition.
 because many of its files are not open to public scrutiny, false
 information collected by ideologically biased researchers cannot be
 corrected.  once a proud human rights group, the adl has become the
 jewish thought police.
 
 "the adl says it's a human rights group not just for jews but for
 everyone," says chip berlet, a highly respected researcher at the
 massachusetts-based political research associates, which monitors
 right-wing extremist groups.  "that's fine but it can't do that and
 spy on palestinians.  it's blatantly unethical and frankly immoral."
 
 "my argument to people is that the adl wears four hats.  each of the
 hats independently is appropriate.  it is a broad-based human rights
 group that looks at the broad issues of prejudice and discrimination.
 it is a group that defends jews against defamation.  entirely noble.
 nothing wrong with that hat.  it is a group, whose leaders, at least,
 consistently defend the actions of israel against its critics, which
 again is entirely appropriate.  and it is a group that maintains an
 information-sharing arrangement with law enforcement.  again, there is
 nothing wrong for a group to do that."
 
 "but you can't do all four.  it is impossible to do all four and not
 violate the bounds of ethics.  there's a built-in conflict of interest
 if you wear all four hats."
 
 adl national director abraham foxman apparently sees no such conflict.
 in a september 1, 1992, letter to the _voice_, foxman complained: "adl
 has a proud 80-year record of fighting bigotry and promoting civil
 rights and constitutional freedoms.  any imputation of an effort or
 motive on our part to smear or stifle the free speech of anyone is
 false and baseless"
 
 "throughout his pieces [on aipac's spying], friedman describes the
 dissemination of information as if it were slander, and the existence
 of files as a token of mccarthyite inclination.  the depiction is
 misleading in several ways.  virtually every journalist, academic,
 politician and organization keeps files on subjects they deem
 relevant; tracing the logic of friedman's reckless charges, the
 library of congress is tantamount to the kgb.  moreover, disseminating
 the public record of a public figure is neither defamation nor
 mccarthyism."
 
 but many believe the adl is increasingly in the defamation business.
 ask jesse jackson, james abourezk, or the leaders of the new jewish
 agenda -- all past targets of adl smears.  (at the same time, the adl
 exonerated the fascist world anti-communist league, which assisted
 ronald reagan's covert war against nicaragua, a policy endorsed by adl
 leaders.)
 
 in the early 1980s, researchers russ bellant and berlet asked to meet
 fact finding head irwin suall, to discuss their work on anti-semite
 lyndon larouche.  "our view then of irwin suall was that he was this
 really terrific investigator," says berlet.  "so we introduce
 ourselves, say what we are up to and suall leans back in his chair and
 basically runs down a dossier on each of us: about what our political
 activities are, who we work with, what organizations we belong to.
 obviously, he was just trying to blow us away and he succeeds
 admirably.  we were just sitting there with our mouths open feeling
 very uncomfortable."
 
 "and then he leans forward and says, 'the right-wing isn't the
 problem.  the left-wing is the problem.  the soviet union is the
 biggest problem in the world for jews.  it's the american left that is
 the biggest threat to american jews.  you're on the wrong track.
 you're part of the problem.'  we were stunned.  i was virtually in
 tears.  this is not how i perceived myself.  we basically stumbled out
 of there in a daze."
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                letters (response to friedman's article)
 
          the village voice, may 18, 1993, vol. xxxviii no. 20
 
 a league of his own
 
 robert i. friedman's assault on the anti-defamation league [the anti-
 defamation league is spying on you." may 11] demonstrates that he has
 an axe to grind and his own prejudiced and biased agenda to promote.
 it also demonstrates that concern for accurate reporting is far down
 on his list.  the story is replete with inaccuracies, innuendos, and
 outright falsehoods, and conveys a picture of adl so divorced from
 reality as to be farcical.  friedman is even wrong on such basic,
 easily determined facts as where adl was founded (chicago, not new
 york) and the building in which adl's san francisco office is located
 (not the jewish community federation building pictured).
 
 adl has done the work of fighting haters for 80 years, without
 "spying" on organizations or individuals and with profound respect for
 the law.  our mission is to monitor and expose those who are anti-
 jewish, racist, anti-democratic, and violence-prone, and we monitor
 them primarily by reading publications and attending public meetings.
 through the years, we have published scores of reports on anti-
 semitism emanating from both the left and the right.  in fact,
 although friedman's bias leads him to assume the contrary, adl's
 primary concern is still the far right.
 
 because extremist organizations are highly secretive, sometimes adl
 can learn of their activities only by using undercover sources.
 friedman's hyperbole notwithstanding, these sources function in a
 manner directly analogous to investigative journalists.  some have
 performed great service to the american people -- for example, by
 uncovering the existence of right-wing extremist paramilitary training
 camps -- with no recognition and at considerable personal risk.  the
 information adl obtains is placed in the public domain, and through
 the years adl has established a reputation for accurate reporting.
 
 friedman's article, by contrast, contains so much misinformation that
 it would take an article equally as long to set the record straight.
 a few examples:  he states that an "adl leader was deeply involved in
 the [jonathan pollard] israeli spy operation," and that pollard's
 handler's wife "worked for the new york adl as a lawyer."  not true.
 friedman also states:  "adl investigators in unmarked vans videotaped
 palestinian funerals."  not true.  elsewhere, he asserts that adl was
 obsessed "with spying on anti-apartheid activists."  again, not true.
 we could go on and on -- and, of course, friedman does not reveal
 *his* sources.
 
 the distortion games friedman plays when he mentions numbers further
 reveal his lack of objectivity.  when it comes to how much adl paid
 roy bullock a week -- as an independent contractor, not an employee
 (an important distinction friedman also fails to make) -- he includes
 the zeros ($75.00, $150.00), inviting the reader to see a large
 number.  by contrast, when he observes that adl paid bullock "nearly
 $170,000" between 1985 and 1993, he chooses not to point out that
 amounts to little more than $20,000 a year -- hardly an excessive sum.
 
 what is accurate about friedman's story is chip berlet's description
 of adl's four hats.  yes, adl looks at broad issues of prejudice and
 discrimination.  yes, adl defends israel against critics.  and yes,
 adl maintains an information-sharing relationship with law enforcement
 regarding extremist activities and hate crimes.  we see no conflict in
 these four activities, and we believe most _voice_ readers won't
 either.
 
 abraham foxman
 national director
 anti-defamation league
 manhattan
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 robert i. friedman replies:
 
 for the adl to compare itself to investigative journalists is absurd.
 journalists don't spy on arabs and anti-apartheid activists and then
 freely pass their files to south african and israeli intelligence.
 but according to police the confessions of two paid adl investigators,
 buttressed by 700 pages of court documents and interviews, the adl
 does.  indeed, the adl spies on groups that are neither anti-semitic
 nor violent.  police confiscated adl files on hundreds of mainstream
 groups ranging from act up to peace now.  respected intellectuals and
 middle east scholars who disagree with the adl's political views have
 ended up on adl blacklists, their reputations smeared.  "private
 organizations have no business paying operatives inside police
 departments or having spies," says an april 17 editorial in the _st.
 louis post-dispatch_, condemning adl spying.  on april 10, police
 armed with search warrants raided adl offices in san francisco and
 l.a. after concluding that "adl employees were apparently less than
 truthful" in voluntarily turning over documents during an earlier
 search, according to san francisco police inspector ron roth's sworn
 affidavit.  roth also asserts that bullock was a "paid employee for
 the adl."  if so, by failing to pay taxes on $170,000 of income paid
 to bullock, the adl could face a total of 48 felony counts, according
 to court papers.  the adl may also face felony charges for illegally
 obtaining confidential information from police computers.  as for
 errors:  the adl was founded in chicago, and moved to new york in
 1947.  but it was an original tenant in the san francisco building
 shown in the _voice_ photo, moving out a few months ago.  i never
 wrote that an "adl leader was deeply involved in the [pollard]
 israeli spy operation."  i reported that pollard himself made the
 charge.  and in court papers, pollard's own lawyer said that the wife
 of pollard's handler worked for the adl.  if i have a bias, it is on
 the side of the first and fourth amendments.
 
 