
 in article <c6xbkw.m4l@news.cso.uiuc.edu> hovig@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (hovig heghinian) writes:
 
 > ... and who copied the months of the armenians?
 
 come again? the image-conscious armenians sorely feel a missing 
 glory in their background. armenians have never achieved statehood 
 and independence, they have always been subservient, and engaged 
 in undermining schemes against their rulers. they committed 
 genocide against the muslim populations of eastern anatolia 
 and x-soviet armenia before and during world war i and fully 
 participated in the extermination of the european jewry 
 during world war ii. belligerence, genocide, back-stabbing, 
 rebelliousness and disloyalty have been the hallmarks of the 
 armenian history. to obliterate these episodes the armenians 
 engaged in tailoring history to suit their whims. in this zeal 
 they tried to cover up the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million 
 turks and kurds before and during world war i.
 
 and the justice is long overdue.
 
 
 source: documents: volume i (1919).
         "document no: 50," archive no: 4/3621, cabin no: 162, drawer 
         no: 5, file no: 2905, section no: 433, contents no: 6, 6-1, 6-2.
         (to 36th division command - militia commander ismail hakki)
 
 "for eight days, armenians have been forcibly obstructing people from
  leaving their homes or going from one village to the other. day and night
  they are rounding up male inhabitants, taking them to unknown destinations,
  after which nothing further is heard of them. (informed from statements
  of those who succeeded in escaping wounded from the massacres around
  taskilise ruins). women and children are being openly murdered or are
  being gathered in the church square and similar places. most inhuman and
  barbarous acts have been committed against moslems for eight days."
  
 
         "document no: 52," archive no: 4/3671, cabin no: 163, drawer 
         no: 1, file no: 2907, section no: 440, contents no: 6-6, 6-7.
         (to: 1st caucasian army corps command, 2nd caucasian army corps
         command, communications zone inspectorate - commander 3rd army
         general)
 
 "as almost all russian units opposite our front have been withdrawn, the
  population loyal to us in regions behind the russian positions are
  facing an ever-increasing threat and suppression as well as cruelties
  and abuses by armenians who have decided to systematically annihilate
  the moslem population in regions under their occupation. i have 
  regularly informed the russian command of these atrocities and
  cruelties and i have gained the impression that the above authority
  seems to be failing in restoring order."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 