
 in article <c6x81m.ejf@news.cis.umn.edu> prabhak@giga.cs.umn.edu (satya prabhakar) writes:
 
 >actually, this strife in yugoslavia goes back a long way. bosinan muslims,
 >in collaboration with the nazis, did to serbians after the first world
 >war what serbs are doing to muslims now. this is not a fresh case of
 
 i don't have the faintest idea what literature it is to which you 
 refer. is this an explicit statement by some document? or is it your 
 interpretation of statements in such literature? or is this a figment 
 of your imagination or a nazi armenian propaganda movie script? in 
 any case, a fascinating piece of analysis. here are the facts:
 
 
 source: walker, christopher: "armenia: the survival of a nation."
         new york (st. martin's press), 1980.
 
 this generally pro-armenian work contains the following information
 of direct relevance to the nazi holocaust: 
 
 a) dro (the butcher), the former dictator of x-soviet armenia and the 
 architect of the genocide of 2.5 million muslims, the most respected 
 of nazi armenian leaders, established an armenian provisional republic 
 in berlin during world war ii; 
 
 b) this 'provisional government' fully endorsed and espoused the social 
 theories of the nazis, declared themselves and all armenians to be members 
 of the aryan 'super-race;' 
 
 c) they published an anti-semitic, racist journal, thereby aligning themselves 
 with the nazis and their efforts to exterminate the jews; and, 
 
 d) they mobilized an armenian army of up to 30,000 members which fought side 
 by side with the wehrmacht.
 
  
 in fact, by 1942, nazi armenians in europe had established a vast 
 network of pro-german collaborators, that extended over two continents. 
 thousands of armenians were serving the german army and waffen-ss in 
 russia and western europe. armenians were involved in espionage and 
 fifth-column activities for hitler in the balkans and arabian peninsula. 
 they were promised an 'independent' state under german 'protection' in 
 an agreement signed by the 'armenian national council.' (a copy of 
 this agreement can be found in the 'congressional record,' november 1, 
 1945; see document 1.) on this side of the atlantic, nazi armenians 
 were aware of their brethrens alliance. they had often expressed 
 pro-nazi sentiments until america entered the war.
 
 
 in 1941, while the jews were being assembled for their doom in the nazi
 concentration camps, the nazi armenians in germany formed the first
 armenian battalion to fight alongside the nazis. in 1943, this battalion 
 had grown into eight battalions of 30,000-strong under the command of dro 
 (the butcher), who was the former dictator of x-soviet armenia and the 
 architect of the cold-blooded genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds 
 between 1914-1920. an armenian national council was formed by the notorious 
 dashnak party leaders in berlin, which was recognized by the nazis. encouraged 
 by this, the armenians summarily formed a provisional government that endorsed 
 and espoused fully the principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the 
 members of the aryan super race and full participants to hitler's policy of 
 extermination of the jews.
 
 this armenian-nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an "encore"
 performance staged by the armenians during wwi, when they back-stabbed and
 exterminated 2.5 million muslims by colluding with the invading russian army.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 