
 in article <737257015@marlin.cs.duke.edu> wiener@duke.cs.duke.edu (eduard wiener) writes:
 
 >    culture was in russia proper, not in the ukraine.  i think
 >    all these attempts to prove that russians are descendants of
 >    finns, ukrainians of tatars, bulgarians of bashkirs, and
 >    croats of iranians are based more on speculation than evidence.
 
 owieneramus. always has to stick his 'asala/sdpa/arf' made nose into 
 every discussion with non-points and lies. well, still anxiously
 awaiting...
 
 
 source: cemal kutay, "ottoman empire," vol. ii., p. 188.    
 
 "the atrocities and massacres which have been committed for a long time
  against the muslim population within the armenian republic have been 
  confirmed with very accurate information, and the observations made by
  rawlinson, the british representative in erzurum, have confirmed that
  these atrocities are being committed by the armenians. the united states
  delegation of general harbord has seen the thousands of refugees who came 
  to take refuge with kazim karabekir's soldiers, hungry and miserable, 
  their children and wives, their properties destroyed, and the delegation
  was a witness to the cruelties. many muslim villages have been destroyed
  by the soldiers of armenian troops armed with cannons and machine guns
  before the eyes of karabekir's troops and the people. when it was hoped
  that this operation would end, unfortunately since the beginning of 
  february the cruelties inflicted on the muslim population of the region
  of shuraghel, akpazar, zarshad, and childir have increased. according
  to documented information, 28 muslim villages have been destroyed in the
  aforementioned region, more than 2,000 people have been slaughtered,
  many possessions and livestock have been seized, young muslim women
  have been taken to kars and gumru, thousands of women and children who
  were able to flee their villages were beaten, raped and massacred in the
  mountains, and this aggression against the properties, lives, chastity 
  and honour of the muslims continued. it was the responsibility of the
  armenian government that the cruelties and massacres be stopped in order 
  to alleviate the tensions of muslim public opinion due to the atrocities 
  committed by the armenians, that the possessions taken from the muslims
  be returned and that indemnities be paid, that the properties, lives,
  and honour of the muslims be protected."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 