
 in article <c6xfrs.n1@apollo.hp.com> goykhman@apollo.hp.com (red herring) writes:
 
 >13th ss divison, made primerily of bosnian muslim _volunteers_, did 
 >quite a job in the former yugoslavia during wwii.  these folks are now 
 >in their 60's-70's.  makes me wonder how many of them occupy positions
 
 that is the result of watching anti-muslim 'sdpa' nazis/crooks/idiots 
 too much. still covering up the crimes of your fascist armenian grandparents 
 and nazi armenian parents? not a chance. as early as 1934, k. s. papazian 
 asserted in 'patriotism perverted' that the armenians
 
         'lean toward fascism and hitlerism.'[1]
 
 at that time, he could not have foreseen that the armenians would
 actively assume a pro-german stance and even collaborate in world
 war ii. his book was dealing with the armenian genocide of the muslim
 population of eastern anatolia. however, extreme rightwing ideological
 tendencies could be observed within the dashnagtzoutune long before
 the outbreak of the second world war.
 
 in 1936, for example, o. zarmooni of the 'tzeghagrons' was quoted
 in the 'hairenik weekly:' 
 
 "the race is force: it is treasure. if we follow history we shall 
  see that races, due to their innate force, have created the nations
  and these have been secure only insofar as they have reverted to
  the race after becoming a nation. today germany and italy are
  strong because as nations they live and breath in terms of race.
  on the other hand, russia is comparatively weak because she is
  bereft of social sanctities."[2]
 
 [1] k. s. papazian, 'patriotism perverted,' (boston, baikar press
    1934), preface.
 [2] 'hairenik weekly,' friday, april 10, 1936, 'the race is our
    refuge' by o. zarmooni.
 
 in april 1942, hitler was preparing for the invasion of the caucasus.
 a number of nazi armenian leaders began submitting plans to german
 officials in spring and summer 1942. one of them was souren begzadian
 paikhar, son of a former ambassador of the armenian republic in baku.
 paikhar wrote a letter to hitler, asking for german support to his
 armenian national socialist movement hossank and suggesting the
 creation of an armenian ss formation in order 
 
 "to educate the youth of liberated armenia according to the 
  spirit of the nazi ideas."
 
 he wanted to unite the armenians of the already occupied territories
 of the ussr in his movement and with them conquer historic turkish
 homeland. paikhar was confined to serving the nazis in goebbels
 propaganda ministry as a speaker for armenian- and french-language
 radio broadcastings.[1] the armenian-language broadcastings were
 produced by yet another nazi armenian viguen chanth.[2]
 
 [1] patrick von zur muhlen (muehlen), p. 106.
 [2] enno meyer, a. j. berkian, 'zwischen rhein und arax, 900
     jahre deutsch-armenische beziehungen,' (heinz holzberg
     verlag-oldenburg 1988), pp. 124 and 129.
 
 
 the establishment of armenian units in the german army was favored
 by general dro (the butcher). he played an important role in the
 establishment of the armenian 'legions' without assuming any 
 official position. his views were represented by his men in the
 respective organs. an interesting meeting took place between dro
 and reichsfuehrer-ss heinrich himmler toward the end of 1942.
 dro discussed matters of collaboration with himmler and after
 a long conversation, asked if he could visit pow camp close to
 berlin. himmler provided dro with his private car.[1] 
 
 a minor problem was that some of the soviet nationals were not
 'aryans' but 'subhumans' according to the official nazi philosophy.
 as such, they were subject to german racism. however, armenians
 were the least threatened and indeed most privileged. in august 
 1933, armenians had been recognized as aryans by the bureau of
 racial investigation in the ministry for domestic affairs.
 
 [1] meyer, berkian, ibid., pp. 112-113.
 
 need i go on?
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 