
 in article <13may93.02285380@edison.usask.ca> f54oguocha@edison.usask.ca writes:
 >
 >please, don't be offended at this question: who are the "muslims" in the
 >bosnian context? 
 
 bosnian muslims are citizens od bosnia-herzegovina who identify themselves
 with bosnian muslim cultural and religious tradition.
 
 >i know that a moslem/muslim is a believer in islam. islam 
 >is a religion and it is practised in many parts of the world. but it is not
 >, yes definitely not, an ethinic group. ok! so, these bosnian muslims, who
 >are they? to which ethnic group do they belong? what language(s) do they
 >speak? do they have a different language from that of the serbs or croats? 
 
 in bosnia, "muslim" is not merely a religious category, but an ethnic
 one as well.  actually, here are the two contradictory arguments
 made by people on this subject:
 
 (1) there is only serbian and croatian nationality, and bosnian muslims
     are simply croats and serbs of islamic faith.
 
 (2) bosnian muslims are a separate nationality since they do not feel
     themselves to be croats nor serbs.
 
 in 1968, argument (2) was accepted by former yugoslavia as valid,
 and (1) was soundly rejected.  the reasons are pragmatic: even if
 bosnian muslims are croats and serbs who converted to islam under
 turkish rule centuries ago, none of the present generation has any
 clue what was their ancestor's actual nationality.  in fact, although
 bosnian muslims have felt drawn to croatian or serbian national
 allegiance, most of them feel they have a separate cultural and
 historic identity.  so, arguments like "yes, but your ancestors were
 croats or serbs" carry very little weight.  regardless of what
 their ancestors might have been, as long as bosnian muslims feel
 that they are a separate national group, that ends the debate.
 what outsiders say is simply not relevant.
 
 >the way the western press use the word 'muslim' in this bosnian debacle has 
 >kept me wondering when the meaning of muslim/moslem i knew from childhood was 
 >changed in the dictionary. this is just a question. no flames intended!
 
 in the case of former yugoslavia, the date is 1971, when "muslim nationality"
 appeared as a census category for the first time.  this was the result
 of a sequence of decisions over the past decade, from recognizing
 "bosniaks" as an ethnic group (1961) to february 1968 resolution (in b-h)
 declaring that muslims are a separate nation, to formal endorsement 
 of this in january 1969, and eventually to the 1971 inclusion of
 "muslim nationality" choice in census forms.
 
 for comparison, in 1948 census there were three national categories
 available to muslims in bosnia-herzegovina:
 
 serb-muslims:                        71,991
 croat-muslims:                       25,295
 muslims, ethnically undeclared:     788,403
 
 this clearly demonstrates that muslims feel themselves to be their own
 nationality.  only a tiny minority felt able to choose serb or croat
 nationality.  census results show that bosnian muslims have
 consistently opted for a third category: in 1948 they chose "undeclared",
 in 1953 they chose "yugoslavs", in 1961 both "yugoslavs" and "bosniak 
 ethnic group", and in 1971, 1981 and 1991 they chose "muslim nationality".
 
 perhaps the term "bosnian muslim nationality" is too confusing for
 the rest of the world.  but, in the present context, we are talking
 about muslims as nationality; not as a religous group within some
 separate national identity.  the reasons are mostly historical and
 cultural.  religion plays a smaller role, as a part of culture in general,
 because the area is simply not known for religious fanaticism.  political
 fanaticism, yes; religious fanaticism, no.  group security and survival
 dominate people's thinking; not fine points of theology.  in fact,
 bosnia-herzegovina is as well known for religious tolerance in peacetime
 as it is known for terrible carnage in wartime.
 
 sincerely,
 -josip
 
 
 
 