
 in article <1su2tf$f7r@venus.haverford.edu> michael sells <m_sells@haverford.edu> writes:
 >
 >thus, while a war rages between serbs and croats as a continuation of
 >wwii, and older agenda, the annihilation of islam and muslims from
 >bosnian, is being carried out under the cover of the serbo-croat war.
 >
 
 the annihilation of islam ("turks") is an older serbian agenda.   but
 i strongly dispute your notion that croats had a similar older agenda,
 in fact, for the past century or two, croats and muslims have seen
 themselves as having a lot in common, and they generally had friendly
 relations.  your suggestion that croat-muslim relationship is 
 anything like serb-muslim relationship is completely wrong.
 
 to say that croats and muslims have a lot in common does not imply
 they are not separate peoples.  the events of the past two years
 clearly show muslim determination to remain separate: in their alliance
 with croats, they maintained this separation.  croats would have
 accepted a much closer relationship, i think.  this century plus
 of building bridges between these two friendly peoples is now at
 risk, because of the inexorable logic of war.  
 
 since bosnian serbs (32% of population) have 10 times more heavy
 weapons than bosnian muslims (44%) and croats (17%) combined, they
 have squeezed muslims and croats into only 30% of the territory.
 muslims lost more territory than croats (who built defenses early on).
 
 under these conditions, any alliance is bound to fall apart since
 it is easier to recover lost land from croats than from serbs.
 the only thing keeping this in check was the hope of reversal of
 fortunes through foreign military intervention and lifting of the
 arms embargo.  since warren christopher had no luck persuading
 the europeans to go along with this, this hope was dashed.  having
 no prospect of outside help, the former allies turned on each other,
 like two starved animals in a tight cage.
 
 this inexorable logic, of course, got plenty of help from serbian
 intelligence operatives, who were doing everything to build
 mistrust between croats and muslims for over a year.  a timely
 intervention to stop serbian aggression would have prevented this.
 
 sadly, nothing was done to create a balance of power on the
 ground.  as long as the serbs enjoy 10:1 advantage, they can 
 break any alliance, even among friends.  this is tragic, but
 hardly new: "divide et impera" was used by ancient romans
 with success.  in my view, bosnian muslims and croats managed
 to resist this divisive strategy reasonably well until may 9, 1993,
 when the hope of reversal of fortunes was lost.  
 
 i have a question for the distinguished diplomats: do they
 believe balkan peoples are experimental cannon fodder?  i'd like to know
 what did they expect when they decided to enforce the arms embargo which
 solidified serbian 10:1 advantage in heavy weapons; how did they expect
 to prevent fragmentation of the muslim and croat defense forces;  and how
 on earth do they hope to restore peace without justice?
 
 the implications of this immoral approach i cannot begin to predict,
 but i am filled with foreboding...
 
 sincerely,
 josip
 
 
 