
 in article <1993may13.150134.6506@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca> golchowy@alchemy.chem.utoronto.ca (gerald olchowy) writes:
 
 >the problem is that the blue berets in bosnia are dead meat if
 >clinton starts bombing, but clinton doesn't have the courage to
 >ask that the blue berets leave, because then he becomes primarily
 >responsible to the bosnian policy of the un and the allies.
 >clinton wants to have his cake and eat it too...he wants to feel
 >free to use american military power for the sake of domestic
 >us politics and his domestic image, but he doesn't want to assume
 >the primary international leadership role in the un and among
 >the allies, like bush, for all his faults, did in the gulf war...
 >because with leadership comes responsibility, and clinton seems
 >to want to retain the europeans as scapegoats.
 >
 
 this is one of the most ridiculous arguments i have heard from the 
 europeans. "let's let the serbs massacre, rape, and ethnically clean
 100,000 bosnians because we don't want our pretty blue berets there
 to get scratched".  well, i say, get them the hell out of there if you're
 worried for them, but don't deny bosnians their basic right to self
 defense! lift the embargo against bosnia, and let them defend themselves.
 what makes the un troops more valuable than the bosnian people?  they
 are letting the civilians die so the soldiers could survive, when
 if anything, it should be the other way around.  idiots like owen 
 expect bosnians to swallow a forced plan, and just hope this problem
 will go away.  well they're wrong.  if they had got their butts in gear
 (that is, if bosnia had oil) a year ago, much of this could be prevented.
 now, however, the results of this tragedy will last for generations.
 that's like forcing the jews to make peace with hitler. yeah right.
 this, as senator biden said, reeks of bigotry, and makes me and any 
 decent human being for that matter, quite sick.  it should be the
 europeans, not the americans, who take the inititiative and ask the
 other for support.  this is their backyard, not the americans.
 today it's bosnia, tomorrow it will be kosovo and macedonia, greece,
 and then turkey, and the damn thing will spread.  not to mention 
 european muslims who weren't even practicing before will rally to
 fundamentalism. good luck handling that, your majesty!  owen was
 upset at the question which compared him to chamberlain, who hoped
 to appease hitler.  he said that chamberlain had been in munich 2 years
 before any war, i have been here during a blazing war for the last
 18 months.  well, that makes him even worse, because chamberlain could
 have at least argued i'm giving germany the benefit of the doubt,
 whereas owen can't even do that.  what the west is doing is aiding the
 serbs by tying the bosnians' hands, and making the stupid excuse of their
 powerless troops on the ground, who can't even protect the bosnian foreign
 minister in their own armored vehicle, and watch the killers just walk
 away!  what kind of peace is this?  what kind of civilization is this?
 
 >clinton wants to leave the europeans in charge and responsible,
 >but wants to freelance on the side...and if his freelancing gets
 >too hot, he wants to be able to cut and run...the american public may
 >be easily fooled...european leaders aren't.
 
 european leaders are pathetic, and are helping a genocide which even they
 will not be able to forget.  yeah, they'll go to africa and fight for some
 damn dictator in their former colony, they'll go to kuwait and fight for
 oil, but in bosnia not only they won't fight aggression, they'll even
 tie the hands of the victim.  now you tell me who is fooling whom.
 
 >
 >gerald
 
 
 
 mash javad
 