
  
 may 13, 1993  _five russian soldiers sentenced to death in azerbaijan_
  
 moscow (upi) -- five soldiers who served in russia's 7th army stationed in
 armenia were sentenced to death in the azerbaijani capital baku thursday for
 allegedly "carrying out diversions and killing 30 azeri soldiers." 
 
 a statement released by the news service of azeri president abulfaz elchibey
 said "the sentence was final and was not subject to protest or appeal," the 
 russian state news agency itar-tass reported. 
 
 but the russian foreign ministry issued an appeal for the men to be handed
 over to the authorities in moscow for punishment. 
 
 "this would accord with modern standards of humanity towards those who have
 committed crimes," the statement reads. 
 
 the five men, together with another soldier who received a 15-year prison
 sentence, were captured in september 1992 by azeri police in the kelbadzhar
 district of azerbaijan, between nagorno-karabakh and armenia. 
 
 the supreme court in baku said the men had gone through special training in a
 company of the russian 7th army in the armenian capital yerevan, after which
 they were sent across the armenian-azeri border into nagorno-karabakh to 
 carry out diversions against azeri troops. 
 
 however, the russian foreign ministry statement claimed they had deserted the
 russian army and were fighting as mercenaries with armenian armed forces in
 the battle zone round karabakh. 
 
 nagorno-karabakh is an armenian-populated enclave within azerbaijan which for
 five years has been fighting for independence from baku in a war that has
 left many thousands dead and uprooted hundreds of thousands from their homes. 
 
 both yerevan and baku have always claimed that russian servicemen stationed
 in these caucasian republics, who were left behind after the break-up of the 
 soviet union, are fighting as mercenaries in the karabakh war. 
 
 the statement from moscow said the russian side repeatedly appealed to the
 azerbaijani government to show humanity and leniency in their treatment of the
 six men, and to hand them over to the russian authorities. 
 
 it said that president boris yeltsin himself sent a letter with this request 
 to his azeri counterpart elchibey. itar-tass said that the soldiers' defense
 attorneys had lodged an appeal for clemency. 
  
  
 
 -- 
 david davidian dbd@urartu.sdpa.org   | "armenia has not learned a lesson in
 s.d.p.a. center for regional studies |  anatolia and has forgotten the 
 p.o. box 382761                      |  punishment inflicted on it."  4/14/93
 cambridge, ma 02238                  |   -- late turkish president turgut ozal 
 