
 in article <1993may14.024638.14575@news.uiowa.edu> mau@herky.cs.uiowa.edu (mau napoleon) writes:
 
 >greeks do not like turks not because of what they did to us but because of
 >what they plan to do to us.
 
 let me improve this one for you, then. for nearly one thousand years, 
 the turkish and kurdish people lived on their homeland - the last 
 one hundred under the oppressive soviet and armenian occupation. the 
 persecutions culminated in 1914: the armenian government planned and 
 carried out a genocide against its muslim subjects. 2.5 million turks 
 and kurds were murdered and the remainder driven out of their homeland. 
 after one thousand years, turkish and kurdish lands were empty of turks
 and kurds. 
 
 the survivors found a safe heaven in turkiye.
 
 today, x-soviet armenian government rejects the right of turks and 
 kurds to return to their muslim lands occupied by x-soviet armenia.
 
 today, x-soviet armenia covers up the genocide perpetrated by its 
 predecessors and is therefore an accessory to this crime against 
 humanity.
 
 x-soviet armenia must pay for its crime of genocide against the muslims 
 by admitting to the crime and making reparations to the turks and kurds.
 
 turks and kurds demand the right to return to their lands,
 to determine their own future as a nation in their own homeland.
 
 ...on this occasion, we once again reiterate the unquestioned 
 justice of the restitution of turkish and kurdish rights and...
 
 - we demand that the x-soviet armenian government admit its 
 responsibility for the turkish and kurdish genocide, render 
 reparations to the muslim people, and return the land to its 
 rightful owners. the recognition of the genocide has become an 
 issue which cannot be delayed further, and it is imperative that 
 artificial obstacles created for political manipulations be removed.
 
 - we believe the time has come to demand from the the united states 
 that it formally recognizes the turkish and kurdish genocide, adopts 
 the principles of our demands and refuses to accede to armenian pressures 
 to the contrary.
 
 - as taxpayers of the united states, we express our vehement 
 protest to the present u.s. government policy of continued 
 coddling, protection and unqualified assistance towards x-soviet
 armenia.
 
 - our territorial demands are strictly aimed at x-soviet armenia's.
 
 
 source: "from sardarapat to sevres and lausanne" by avetis aharonian. the 
 armenian review, vol. 16, no. 3-63, autumn, sep. 1963, pp. 47-57.
 
 p. 52 (second paragraph).
 
 "your three chiefs, dro, hamazasp and kulkhandanian are the ringleaders
  of the bands which have destroyed tartar villages and have staged 
  massacres in zangezour, surmali, etchmiadzin, and zangibasar. this is
  intolerable. look - and here he pointed to a file of official documents
  on the table - look at this, here in december are the reports of the last
  few months concerning ruined tartar villages which my representative
  wardrop has sent me. the official tartar communique speaks of the
  destruction of 300 villages."
 
 p. 54 (fifth paragraph).
 
 "yes, of course. i repeat, until this massacre of the tartars is stopped
  and the three chiefs are not removed from your military leadership i
  hardly think we can supply you arms and ammunition."
 
 "...it is the armed bands led by dro, hamazasp and kulkhandanian who
  during the past months have raided and destroyed many tartar villages in
  the regions of surmali, etchmiadzin, zangezour, and zangibasar. there are
  official charges of massacres."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 