
 in article <1srg4cinnj73@early-bird.think.com> shaig@think.com (shai guday) writes:
 >in article <2703@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au>, jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu.au (joseph askew) writes:
 
 >please cite specific examples where an arab party member was rejected
 >while a jewish party member was accepted.
 
 if you look at the bottom of this article you will see that i have very
 kindly dug up one of yigal arens previous postings (entirely without his
 permission, i hope he doesn't mind) containing translations from ha'arezt
 detailing just such a case. perhaps you think that ha'arezt lies? would
 you like to provide me with an assurance that this practise *never* occurs?
 
 >if you examine these i am
 >sure you will discover that the arab party member did not have the power
 >base that his jewish counterpart had.
 
 right, arabs have been voting in israel for how long? and in all that time
 not one arab ever gained enough of a personal following to get his fellow
 party members to put in a ministry? this is about as likely as sprouting
 wings and flying to rio. what basis do you have for explaining this odd
 failure? you seem very confident that you are right, exactly how do you
 know, why are you sure?
 
 >once again, if for arguments sake, all the arab israelis were to vote
 >for labor at the next election, you can rest assured that the number of
 >arab mks and cabinet members would increase proportionately to the
 >power shift.
 
 exactly what basis do you have for saying this when the labour party
 has never put an arab into a cabinet post and insists its coalition
 members do the same? why and on what basis are you reassuring me in
 the face of 50 years of discriminatory practise?
 
 >you are overlooking the fact that they wield political power
 >as individuals based upon a wider collective power base.
 
 hey what?? as i said even when their party puts them up they get knocked
 back. it surely couldn't be because they are arabs is it?
 
 >the reasoning i see at work is purely political.  as far as security
 >goes i think that some serious gaffs were made by right wing jews
 >as well - e.g. sharon.
 
 well yes, but security is the reason most often given by people who
 want to make excuses. i merely thought it would crop up and so
 pre-empted it.
 
 start of article (all commets in [*....*] are mine not dr. arens)
 
 [comments in square brackets are mine - yigal]
 
 >from "the other front", july 29, 1992.  translation of ha'aretz article.
 
 racism in the knesset
 ---------------------
 
 coalition requirements on one hand, and the presence of progressive mks
 from _meretz_ in the coalition on the other, have compelled rabin and
 his friends to change, to some extent, their attitude towards the arab
 public and their representatives in the knesset.  although he did refuse
 to view them as partners, taking part in the coalition and joining the
 government, he did agree to meet with them and to give them a document
 of intentions which included a commitment to "work towards a decrease in
 the discrimination between jewish and arab citizens".  [decrease what?!?!
 but posters have told us time and again that such discrimination does
 not exist *at* *all*!  is rabin, too, a closet self-hater??? - yigal].
 
 however, racism has not disappeared.  when the knesset sat to consider
 who would staff its various committees, a request was made to put an mk
 from hadash [the communist party, one of the "arab" parties - yigal] on
 the state comptroller's committee.  and oh, did that ever stir up a
 storm -- including in the ranks of labor -- since many knesset members
 find it unthinkable that an arab mk sit on one of the important house
 committees.  "security secrets" are liable to fall into their hands...
 
 this attitude -- which until recently had not even aroused criticism,
 being so natural and so deeply-embossed upon people's hearts -- holds
 that there are knesset members who, despite having been elected by tens
 of thousands of votes, are not entitled to be full partners in the body
 which represents the people of israel.  we are not speaking here of
 political discrimination -- which would be bad enough in itself -- but
 of racial discrimination.  the proof: one of the compromises proposed
 was that mk mahamid [an arab - yigal] should be replaced by tamar
 gojanski [a jew - yigal] from the same party.  it was not the member's
 party which was considered unfit, but his race...
 
 [* here is a documented case in a respected israeli newspaper. *]
 
 it is worth noting that for the first time since the state's founding, a
 public debate has arisen on this subject, as witness the following
 article:
 
 
 a test of self-confidence
 
 by gid'on levi, ha'aretz, july 26, 1992
 
 revelations of discrimination against arabs have become such an integral
 part of our daily routine that there is not much effort made to deal
 with them.  [do you hear that, -----?  please contact this levi fellow
 and explain to him how little he knows about israel.  please! - yigal].
 except that sometimes the demon bursts out from behind the government's
 window dressing, and then the phenomenon is seven times more serious.
 
 last week provided two more such examples: the israeli knesset is
 finding it very difficult to allow arab representation on its more
 important committees; and israel television is finding it no less
 difficult to give a platform to arabs from the territories.  seemingly
 two entirely different matters, but in fact they are one and the same.
 
 the 13th knesset proved last week that, even though one third of its
 members are new faces, it has not renewed its own face at all, at least
 on one issue.  parliamentary traditions may be modernized and
 parliamentary traditions may become obsolete, and only one tradition
 endures forever: no arab shall set foot in the more important committees
 of the house.  there has never been and never will be an arab mk on the
 external affairs and defense committee or on the finance committee.
 worlds have been overturned over the question of whether or not "to
 give" arabs, for the first time, a place on the state comptroller's
 committee.
 
 the arguments are old and well-known: in all three of the above
 committees innumerable secrets are revealed -- and woe unto us if an
 arab should hear them.  one must not make light of such arguments, but
 their significance should also not be exaggerated.  every arab mk is not
 spending all his time waiting for the opportune moment to hand over
 information from the knesset committee room to black panther
 headquarters in jenin; and not all the aforementioned committees are
 continually occupied in the discussion of top-secret matters, which
 could safely be revealed, for example, to mks supportive of the jewish
 underground, but not to an arab mk from the likud, labor, or even from
 hadash.
 
 the arabs themselves would probably forego membership in the subcommittee
 on secret service matters, but what would happen, one may ask, if mk
 nawaf masalha were to hear, god forbid, a review of the foreign minister
 in an open meeting of the foreign affairs and defense committee, or even
 a review of the army chief of staff which, in any case, are regularly
 leaked to the next edition of the news.  and what would happen if mk
 hashem mahamid were to report on what he had seen with his own eyes at
 al-najah?
 
 their non-participation [in important committees] and that of their
 colleagues, creates an intolerable situation, where arab members of the
 elected house have only semi-positions.  they are good enough for
 addressing plenary sessions, and for voting for or against the
 government and participating in the deliberations of the immigration and
 absorption committee.  but they must not, for example, participate in
 the process of formulating the state budget in the finance committee or
 in the allocation of resources to local authorities.  in any case, they
 have little part in that.
 
 labor's dependence on the support of the arab parties has brought about
 some improvement: mk hashem mahamid, will, it seems, participate in the
 state comptroller's committee.  earlier, there had been a ridiculous
 attempt made to dictate to hadash who their representative should be,
 and thus to prevent the arab from entering this dubious holy-of-holies,
 but it soon became clear that there was no legal or constitutional
 backing for such a step.
 
 but not to worry: even now the jewish mind is contriving devices.  the
 new committee chair, roni milo, has already announced that he will set up
 subcommittees aplenty for his committee.  thus he will decide where it
 is permissible for mahamid to participate and where not.  a solution
 such as this could, by the way, also have been adopted for the rest of
 the committees, thereby completely eliminating the fear of state secrets
 being leaked to the enemy and removing the stain of discrimination from
 the knesset.
 
 [. . .]
 
 end article
 
 do you accept that as documentation?
 
 joseph askew
 
 -- 
 joseph askew, gauche and proud  in the autumn stillness, see the pleiades,
 jaskew@spam.maths.adelaide.edu  remote in thorny deserts, fell the grief.
 disclaimer? sue, see if i care  north of our tents, the sky must end somwhere,
 actually, i rather like brenda  beyond the pale, the river murmurs on.
 