
 in article <c6zmb5.5pn@news.cso.uiuc.edu> ptg2351@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu (panos tamamidis ) writes:
 
 > what i simply want, is the same thing for the greeks of turkey. the
 > turkish state should recognize its crimes against the greek minority,
 
 pardon me? history shows that within the last 170 years, greeks played 
 that game twice: they used istanbul patriarch grigorios in 1822 to 
 instigate the morea rebellion that resulted in the massacres of 
 the muslim people. again, the orthodox patriarch constantine v 
 invited the russian czar nicholas ii to invade the ottoman empire 
 'in the name of jesus,' and save his flock from ottoman rule. 
 
 source: "the 'past' in medieval and modern greek culture," in speros
          vryonis, ed., 'byzantina kai metabyzantina,' vol i (malibu,
          calif., 1978).
 
 p. 161.
 
 in the words of professor skiotis, "with savage jubilance, [the greeks]
 sang the words 'let no turk remain in the morea, nor in the whole world.'
 the greeks were determined to achieve to 'romaiko' in the only way they
 knew how: through a war of religious extermination."
 
 
   <<the leader of the ashkenazi community of corlu complained to the
   president of aiu [alliance israelite universelle] in 1902 about
   persistent greek attacks against its jewish quarter:
 
     ''the fanatic greeks of our city, as of other places in thrace,
     have the habit of, contrary to the spirit of real christianity,
     making a replica of judas iscariote and of burning it on the night
     of holy saturday. they construct a wooden figure, cover it with
     clothing which they claim is that of the ancient jews, and they
     burn it publicly in the middle of a multitude of the ignorant and
     the fanatic. it often happens that this multitude, already excited
     by the tales of the suffering of christ that has been made to them
     at the church, is exaulted at the appearance of the execution of he
     who is supposed to have betrayed christ, and works up a great anger
     against the jews...for a long time we have known that each year,
     on such a day, they will cut off the heads and arms of the corpses
     in our cemetery and will burn them with great solemnity. we make
     no complaint about this in order not to create differences between
     the two communities. but this audacious madness of these fanatics
     has increased. we ourselves see the flames and hear the cries of
     hatred and vengeance against the jews.''[42]>>
 
 [42] ashkenazi community, corlu, to aiu no.8783, 2 may 1902, in aiu
      archives (paris) ii c 8, with report printed in el tiempo of 1 may 1902.
 
 
 source: professor stanford j. shaw, 'the jews of the ottoman empire and the
         turkish republic,' new york university press, new york (1991).
 
  pages 202-203:
 
   <<in 1865, immediately after enactment of the new organic statute for the
   jewish community, and just as jewish capital from europe was beginning
   to have an effect in istanbul, local armenians and greeks started a pogrom
   against jews immediately across the sea of marmara at haydarpasa, terminus
   of the anatolia railroad, with three hundred jews massacred and many more
   beaten and raped before the disturbance was stopped after the sultan sent
   his personal guard across the bay to protect the jews [39].
 
   in later years, ritual murder attacks against jews, carried out mostly
   by native greeks, armenians, and, in arab provinces, by maronites and
   other arab christians, often with the assistance of the local european
   consuls, took place throughout the empire. there were literally thousands
   of incidents continuously until world war i, in southeastern europe as far
   west and north as monastir and kavalla, in istanbul, at gallipoli and
   the dardanelles, at salonica, and in all the arab provinces as far south
   as damascus and beirut and in egypt at cairo and alexandria. these
   invariably resulted from accusations spread among ottoman christians
   by word of mouth, or published in their newspapers, often by christian
   financiers and merchants anxious to get their jewish competitors out of
   the way or to divert onto the jews muslim anger at reports of christian
   massacres of muslims in southeastern europe or central asia, resulting
   in individual and mob attacks on jews, and the burning of their shops
   and homes.
 
   individual experiences were horrible. jews constantly went in fear of
   armenian or greek attacks in the streets of ottoman cities. in egypt
   and syria, it was usually the greeks who led the way, in many cases
   with the assistance of local armenians and syrian christians, whose
   greek, arabic and french-language newspapers often printed all the
   rumors they could find regarding jews, evidently with the desire of
   instigating violence. the syrian arab christians in particular spread
   their long-standing anti-semitic hatreds from syria to egypt, where
   their monopoly of the local press and their espousal of popular causes
   such as egyptian nationalism and opposition to the british rule, enabled
   them to spread their anti-jewish message among the muslim masses with
   little question or opposition.
 
   on 20 june 1890, thus, sir evelyn baring (later lord cromer), british
   high commissioner in egypt, received the following report from david
   and nissim ades, in cairo:
 
     ''sir,
 
       i beg sir to draw to your attention to the violent articles which
       has (sic) appeared in an arabic paper called el mahroussa which
       contained nothing but lies and false accusations against the jews,
       especially those (the issues) of the 14th, 17th and 19th instant.
       now, sir, are we to have here an anti-semitic party amidst fanaticism,
       greeks, armenians, etc., or is he to be allowed to continue to poison
       the people's minds with exaggeration and painted words? in an article,
       he asserted that the jews use christian blood for passover, of course
       this has caused a deal of excitement.'' [40]
 
   whenever greek and other orthodox religious authorities or prominent
   greek business leaders or consuls were asked to help to stem the violence
   or reduce tension, they invariably indicated their cooperation and then
   failed to do anything to prevent attacks or punish those who stimulated
   or led them. [41]
 
   the leader of the ashkenazi community of corlu complained to the
   president of aiu [alliance israelite universelle] in 1902 about
   persistent greek attacks against its jewish quarter:
 
     ''the fanatic greeks of our city, as of other places in thrace,
     have the habit of, contrary to the spirit of real christianity,
     making a replica of judas iscariote and of burning it on the night
     of holy saturday. they construct a wooden figure, cover it with
     clothing which they claim is that of the ancient jews, and they
     burn it publicly in the middle of a multitude of the ignorant and
     the fanatic. it often happens that this multitude, already excited
     by the tales of the suffering of christ that has been made to them
     at the church, is exaulted at the appearance of the execution of he
     who is supposed to have betrayed christ, and works up a great anger
     against the jews...for a long time we have known that each year,
     on such a day, they will cut off the heads and arms of the corpses
     in our cemetery and will burn them with great solemnity. we make
     no complaint about this in order not to create differences between
     the two communities. but this audacious madness of these fanatics
     has increased. we ourselves see the flames and hear the cries of
     hatred and vengeance against the jews.''[42]>>
 
 
 [39] el tiempo, 28 april 1926; galante, istanbul i, 185; galante, documents v,
      340-41.
 
 [40] fo 78/430, enclosed in baring no.207 to lord salisbury, cairo,
      25 june 1890, reprinted in landau, 'ritual murder accusations', p.450.
 
 [41] jacob landau, 'ritual murder accusations and persecutions of jews
      in nineteenth century egypt', sefunot v (1961), 425-427; for example
      see report in baiu [bulletin de l'alliance israelite universelle:
      deuxieme serie (paris)], first semestre 1881, pp.66-67. galante also
      reported similar difficulties with the greek religious leaders while
      he was teaching in rhodes.
 
 [42] ashkenazi community, corlu, to aiu no.8783, 2 may 1902, in aiu
      archives (paris) ii c 8, with report printed in el tiempo of 1 may 1902.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 