	<1sreod$73k@venus.haverford.edu> <c6z32r.ah9@news2.cis.umn.edu>
 date: fri, 14 may 1993 16:50:16 gmt
 lines: 51
 
 
 in article <c6z32r.ah9@news2.cis.umn.edu> prabhak@giga.cs.umn.edu (satya prabhakar) writes:
 
    i guess that it was not acceptable because germany *also* chose
    a path of aggression simultaneously that put the interests of
    other countries in peril. i wonder whether us or other countries
    would have risked themselves if only jews were persecuted and
    hitler had no imperialist ambitions. (i am no student of history
    and i am just asking questions.)
 
 i don't think they would have.  after all the u.s. was one of the
 countries that turned away jewish refugees when there was still time
 to get them out.  (considered and rejected at the cabinet level then..)
 
    ...
    under what conditions should us interfere in foregin countries,
    is an abstraction one must clarify before resorting to acrimonious
    accusations of religious bigotry and such.
 
 as i understand it, international law provides the right of any
 country to intervene to prevent genocide.  i think once the world
 court has ruled that genocide is being committed... 
 
 if a human rights czar is appointed at the u.n., we could have
 international monitors recording events and responses of local
 officials and develop an objective basis.  this could be backed by
 adjudication at the international court of justice and enforcement
 through a rapid deployment force under the u.n. secretary general's
 command.  i would like to see the u.n.  directly impose icj rulings
 whenever feasible (without the possibility of vetos at the un security
 council.. much as the president can't veto a u.s. supreme court
 ruling). 
  
 the u.s. is now supporting the effort to appoint the hr czar -- the
 third world opposition is led by three countries, china, iran and
 pakistan (what company is pakistan keeping!).  
 
 the u.s. is also reconsidering its opposition to the u.n. force
 initially envisaged in the charter (although under the control of the
 security council).  the un sc is quite a flawed body.  rogue
 governments like the prc have even threatened their veto in the last
 few months to block the move to place u.n. troops in bosnia under
 chapter 7 instead of 11 (if i have the numbers straight) where they
 could have moved from being a monitoring to an enforcement force
 without requiring further sc action.  (the prc even continues to
 threaten using its veto on u.n. action despite the icj ruling.  the
 current set-up requires the sc to enforce icj rulings..).
 
 peace,
 
 gul agha
 