
 
  
  bill coleman writes...
  
 (responding to a discussion about a mosque in jerusalem allegedly 
 having been destroyed by israel)
 
 bc> in today's jerusalem post magazine there is a feature story about the
 bc> ongoing restoration of synagogues in the jewish quarter.  the author,
 bc> leah abramowitz, writes that there were fifty-seven synagogues in the
 bc> quarter in 1948, all of which were destroyed, some, she says, used as
 bc> donkey stables.  the building shells, that is.
 bc> 
 bc> i still find it really, really hard to understand why the demolition
 bc> of the buildings in front of the kotel continues to evoke more outrage
 bc> than this.  everything is so much cheaper when it happens to the jews.
 bc> 
 bc> why?
  
     the double standard of human behavior regarding the jews must
     be manitained.
 
     a perfect example is the outcry over the temporary removal of
     400 men who advocated murdering jews and destroying the state
     of israel, compared to the deafening silence over the abusive
     treatment of jews in arab countries during the past 50 years.
 
     compare the tacit appoval that the world gives to muslims who
     randomly murder jewish civilians to the righteous indignation
     expressed if people in the occupied territories are kept from
     working in israel in an effort to reduce these random murders
     from occuring, while everyone knows that no country is at all
     required to accept foreign workers, except israel, of course.
 
     jewish blood has always been cheap.  the non-jewish world ha
     never regarded any form of jewish suffering important, except
     when the jews were the models of the powerless victim holding
     the high moral ground, as it had been just after world war 2.  
     however, as soon as the jewish people started to take care of 
     themselves, the ancient hatred of jews was unleashed again.  
     
     i doubt if the non-jewish world is even capable of having any
     compassion towards jews as anti-semitism is so ancient and so
     basic to both christianity and islam.  
     
     golda meir said that there would be peace when the arabs love
     their own children more than they hate the jews.  and while i
     know that there are more arab parents who love their children 
     than those who would send their children out into the streets 
     to throw rocks at men trained to defend themselves with guns,
     the world is so obsessed by a hatred of jews trying to defend 
     themselves that they have yet to even question the actions of 
     those parents who not simply allow their children to do this, 
     but encourage them to throw themselves into harm's way.  even 
     arab children are expendable, if their tragic deaths are used 
     in the neverending propoganda battle to blame israel, and the  
     jews, for any misfortune befalling arabs in the middle east.
 
 
 
         *       *       *       *       *       *       *          
    who is a jew?  a person whose integrity decays when unmoved by
    the knowledge of wrong done to other people.  -  a. j. heschel
 
 