
 in article <1993may15.021746.9527@seas.smu.edu> pts@seas.smu.edu (paul thompson schreiber) writes:
 
 >                          by nancy najarian
 >huddled around one measly candle or kerosene lamp in the cold?  how to
 >make others feel the isolation of living in a country of 3.5 million
 >people completely blockaded by hostile neighbors, prevented from
 >receiving adequate supplies of fuel to keep the electric plants
 >running, hospitals open, schools in operation?  will anybody
 
 a typical armenian revisionist. as in the past in x-soviet armenia, 
 and today in azerbaijan, for utopic and idiotic causes the armenians
 brought havoc to their neighbors. a short-sighted and misplaced
 nationalistic fervor with a wrong agenda and anachronistic methods
 the armenians continue to become pernicious for the region. as usual,
 they will be treated accordingly by their neighbors. nagorno-karabag 
 is a mountainous enclave that lies completely within azerbaijan with 
 no border or history whatsoever connected to x-soviet armenia. besides 
 the geographical aspect, nagorno-karabag is the historic homeland and 
 the 'cradle' of the artistic and literary heritage of azerbaijan, which 
 renders the armenian claims preposterous, even lunatic. no one in his or 
 her mind could have imagined that one day such a devious turn of event 
 could have plagued the azeris. one cannot even imagine the reverse case 
 to occur, for the armenians either would have slaughtered the azerbaijanis, 
 or put them to forced exile to maintain their own majority. where was she?
 
 
                 an appeal to mankind
 
 during the last three years azerbaijan and its multinational
 population are vainly fighting for justice within the limits of
 the soviet union. all humanitarian, constitutional human rights
 guaranteed by the un charter, universal declaration of human
 rights, helsinki agreements, human problems international forums,
 documents signed by the soviet union - all of them are violated.
 
 the ussr's president, government bodies do not defend azerbaijan
 though they are all empowered to take necessary measures to
 guarantee life and peace.
 
 the 140,000 strong army of armenian terrorists with moscow's
 tacit consent wages an undeclared war of annihilation against
 azerbaijan. as a result, a part of azerbaijan has been occupied
 and annexed, hundreds of people killed, thousands wounded.
 
 some 200,000 azerbaijanis have been brutally and inhumanly
 deported from the armenian ssr, their historical homeland.
 together with them 64,000 russians and 22,000 kurds have also
 been driven out, a part of them now settled in azerbaijan.
 some 40,000 turkish-meskhetians, lezghins and representatives 
 of other caucasian nationalities who escaped from the central
 asia where the president and government bodies did not guarantee
 them the life and peace also suffered from these deportations.
 
 one of the scandalous vandalisms directed not only against
 azerbaijan science but the world civilization as well is the
 armenian extremists' destruction of the karabakh scientific
 experimental base of the institute of genetics and selection 
 of the academy of sciences of the azerbaijan ssr.
 
 we beg you for humanitarian help and political assistance,
 for the honour and dignity of 7 million azerbaijanis are
 violated, its territory, culture  and history are trampled,
 its people are shot. there is persistent negative image of
 azerbaijanians abroad, and this defamation is spread over 
 the whole world by soviet mass media, armenian lobby in the
 ussr and the united states. 
 
 one of the myths is that all events allegedly involves and
 generated by interethnic collisions and religious intolerance
 while the truth is that all these shootings and recent 
 events stem from the territorial claims of armenia on
 azerbaijan.
 
 it is a well documented fact that before the conflict there
 were no frictions between armenians and azerbaijanis on the
 issue of karabakh. hundreds and thousands armenians placidly
 and calmly lived and worked in azerbaijan land, had their
 representatives in all government bodies of the azerbaijan
 ssr.
 
 we are for a united, indivisible, sovereign azerbaijan, we 
 are for a common caucasian home proclaimed in 1918 by one
 of the founding fathers of the azerbaijan democratic 
 republic - muhammed emin rasulzade.
 
 but all these goals and expectations are trampled upon the
 soviet leadership in favour of the armenian expansionists
 encouraged by moscow and intended to create a new '1,000
 year reich' - the 'great armenia' - by annexing the 
 neighboring lands.
 
 the world public opinion shed tears to save the whales,
 suffers for penguins dying out in the antarctic continent.
 
 but what about the lives of seven million human beings?
 if these people are muslims, does it mean that they are
 less valuable? can people be discriminated by their 
 colour of skin or religion, by their residence or other
 attributes?
 
 all people are brothers, and we appeal to our brothers
 for help and understanding. this is not the first appeal
 of azerbaijan to the world public opinion. our previous
 appeals were unheard. however, we still carry the hope
 that the truth beyond the russian and armenian propaganda
 will one day reveal the extent of our suffering and
 stimulate at least as much help and compassion for
 azerbaijan as tendered to whales and penguins.
 
 		the committee for people's help to 
                 karabakh (of the) academy of sciences 
                 of the azerbaijan ssr
 
 
 "painful search .."
 
 the gruesome extent of february's killings of azeris by armenians
 in the town  of hojali is at last emerging  in azerbaijan - about
 600 men,  women and  children dead  in the  worst outrage  of the
 four-year war over nagorny karabakh.
 
 the figure  is drawn  from azeri investigators,  hojali officials
 and casualty lists published in the baku press. diplomats and aid
 workers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates.
 
 the 25  february attack on hojali  by armenian forces was  one of
 the last moves  in their four-year campaign to  take full control
 of nagorny karabakh,  the subject of a new  round of negotiations
 in rome on monday. the bloodshed was something between a fighting
 retreat and  a massacre, but  investigators say that most  of the
 dead were civilians. the awful  number of people killed was first
 suppressed by  the fearful  former communist government  in baku.
 later  it  was blurred  by  armenian  denials and  grief-stricken
 azerbaijan's wild  and contradictory  allegations of up  to 2,000
 dead.
 
 the state prosecuter, aydin rasulov,  the cheif investigator of a
 15-man  team  looking  into  what azerbaijan  calls  the  "hojali
 disaster", said  his figure of 600  people dead was a  minimum on
 preliminary  findings.  a similar  estimate  was  given by  elman
 memmedov, the mayor of hojali. an  even higher one was printed in
 the baku newspaper  ordu in may - 479 dead  people named and more
 than 200 bodies reported unidentified.  this figure of nearly 700
 dead is quoted as official by leila yunusova, the new spokeswoman
 of the azeri ministry of defence.
 
 francois zen  ruffinen, head  of delegation of  the international
 red cross  in baku, said  the muslim imam  of the nearby  city of
 agdam had reported a figure of  580 bodies received at his mosque
 from  hojali, most  of  them  civilians. "we  did  not count  the
 bodies. but  the figure seems  reasonable. it is no  fantasy," mr
 zen ruffinen said. "we have some idea since we gave the body bags
 and products to wash the dead."
 
 mr  rasulov endeavours  to give  an unemotional  estimate of  the
 number of  dead in the  massacre. "don't  get worked up.  it will
 take  several months  to  get a  final  figure," the  43-year-old
 lawyer said at his small office.
 
 mr rasulov  knows about these  things. it  took him two  years to
 reach  a firm  conclusion that  131  people were  killed and  714
 wounded  when  soviet  troops  and tanks  crushed  a  nationalist
 uprising in baku in january 1990.
 
 those  nationalists, the  popular  front, finally  came to  power
 three weeks  ago and  are applying pressure  to find  out exactly
 what  happened when  hojali, an  azeri town  which lies  about 70
 miles from the border with armenia, fell to the armenians.
 
 officially, 184 people have so  far been certified as dead, being
 the  number of  people that  could be  medically examined  by the
 republic's forensic department. "this  is just a small percentage
 of the dead," said rafiq youssifov, the republic's chief forensic
 scientist. "they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the
 chaos and the fact that we are  muslims and have to wash and bury
 our dead within 24 hours."
 
 of these 184 people, 51 were women, and 13 were children under 14
 years old.  gunshots killed  151 people,  shrapnel killed  20 and
 axes or  blunt instruments  killed 10.  exposure in  the highland
 snows killed the last three.  thirty-three people showed signs of
 deliberate mutilation, including ears,  noses, breasts or penises
 cut off and  eyes gouged out, according  to professor youssifov's
 report. those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of those
 believed to have been killed, mr rasulov said.
 
 files  from  mr  rasulov's  investigative  commission  are  still
 disorganised -  lists of 44  azeri militiamen are dead  here, six
 policemen there,  and in handwriting  of a mosque  attendant, the
 names of  111 corpses brought to  be washed in just  one day. the
 most heartbreaking account from  850 witnesses interviewed so far
 comes  from towfiq  manafov,  an azeri  investigator  who took  a
 helicopter  flight  over  the  escape route  from  hojali  on  27
 february.
 
 "there were too many bodies of  dead and wounded on the ground to
 count properly: 470-500  in hojali, 650-700 people  by the stream
 and the road and 85-100  visible around nakhchivanik village," mr
 manafov  wrote in  a  statement countersigned  by the  helicopter
 pilot.
 
 "people waved up  to us for help. we saw  three dead children and
 one  two-year-old alive  by  one  dead woman.  the  live one  was
 pulling at her arm for the mother to get up. we tried to land but
 armenians started a barrage against  our helicopter and we had to
 return."
 
 there  has been  no consolidation  of  the lists  and figures  in
 circulation because  of the political  upheavals of the  last few
 months and the  fact that nobody knows exactly who  was in hojali
 at the time - many inhabitants were displaced from other villages
 taken over by armenian forces.
 
 the independent, london, 12/6/'92
 
 
 heroes who fought on amid the bodies
 
 aref  sadikov sat  quietly  in the  shade of  a  cafe-bar on  the
 caspian sea  esplanade of baku and  showed a line of  stitches in
 his trousers, torn  by an armenian bullet as he  fled the town of
 hojali just over three months ago, writes hugh pope.
 
 "i'm still  wearing the same  clothes, i don't have  any others,"
 the  51-year-old carpenter  said,  beginning his  account of  the
 hojali disaster. "i was wounded in five places, but i am lucky to
 be alive."
 
 mr sadikov and  his wife were short of  food, without electricity
 for more than a month, and cut off from helicopter flights for 12
 days. they  sensed the  armenian noose was tightening  around the
 2,000 to  3,000 people left in  the straggling azeri town  on the
 edge of karabakh.
 
 "at about 11pm  a bombardment started such as we  had never heard
 before,  eight  or  nine   kinds  of  weapons,  artillery,  heavy
 machine-guns, the lot," mr sadikov said.
 
 soon neighbours were  pouring down the street  from the direction
 of  the  attack. some  huddled  in  shelters but  others  started
 fleeing the town,  down a hill, through a stream  and through the
 snow into a forest on the other side.
 
 to escape, the  townspeople had to reach the azeri  town of agdam
 about 15  miles away. they  thought they  were going to  make it,
 until at  about dawn  they reached a  bottleneck between  the two
 armenian villages of nakhchivanik and saderak.
 
 "none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were spotted by
 a  car on  the road,  and the  armenian outposts  started opening
 fire," mr sadikov said.
 
 azeri militiamen fighting their way  out of hojali rushed forward
 to force  open a  corridor for the  civilians, but  their efforts
 were mostly  in vain.  mr sadikov  said only  10 people  from his
 group of  80 made it  through, including his wife  and militiaman
 son.  seven  of  his  immediate  relations  died,  including  his
 67-year-old elder brother.
 
 "i only had time to reach down  and cover his face with his hat,"
 he said, pulling his own big  flat turkish cap over his eyes. "we
 have never got any of the bodies back."
 
 the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire.
 one hero  of the  evacuation, alif  hajief, was  shot dead  as he
 struggled to change  a magazine while covering  the third group's
 crossing, mr sadikov said.
 
 another hero,  elman memmedov, the  mayor of hojali, said  he and
 several others  spent the whole day  of 26 february in  the bushy
 hillside, surrounded by  dead bodies as they tried  to keep three
 armenian armoured personnel carriers at bay.
 
 as the  survivors staggered the  last mile into agdam,  there was
 little comfort  in a town from  which most of the  population was
 soon to flee.
 
 "the night  after we reached  the town  there was a  big armenian
 rocket attack. some people just  kept going," mr sadikov said. "i
 had to  get to the  hospital for treatment. i  was in a  bad way.
 they even found a bullet in my sock."
 
 victims of  war: an  azeri woman  mourns her  son, killed  in the
 hojali massacre in february  (left). nurses struggle in primitive
 conditions  (centre)  to  save  a  wounded  man  in  a  makeshift
 operating  theatre set  up  in a  train carriage.  grief-stricken
 relatives in  the town of agdam  (right) weep over the  coffin of
 another of the massacre victims. calculating the final death toll
 has been  complicated because muslims  bury their dead  within 24
 hours.
 
 photographs: liu heung / ap
              frederique lengaigne / reuter
 
 the independent, london, 12/6/'92
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 