
 in article <c7185t.9xj@unix.amherst.edu> eerginel@unix.amherst.edu (erdem erginel) writes:
 
 >my question is, given so many separations in the armenian community, what
 >was the common denominator of the armenian people that allowed armenian
 >nationalism to emerge in the nineteenth century? as i stated, religion
 
 there are various contradictory views on the origin of the armenians.
 the name is to be found in the darian inscriptions in the form 'armina'
 or 'aramaniya' is to be found in the inscription on the bistun monument.
 the following references to the armenians are to be found in the bistun
 cuneiform inscription of dara vishdasb (510 b.c.).
 
  1. the monarch dara said: i sent my servant to arminam 'armeniya'.
 
  6. on reaching arminam 'armeniya'.
 
  7. to the country town of zozo, to armaniya 'armeniya'.
 
 according to karakashian:
 
 as for 'armenia', the equivalent of the 'armin' or 'arminik' of the persians,
 this is more recent than the word 'ararat', and is to be found used in
 the dara inscriptions for 'haiastan'.  
 
 saint martin:
 
 the name 'armenie' has been given since very early times by almost all
 the various eastern peoples to the territory referred to by the armenians
 as 'haiastan'. it was known to the syrians as armenia and to the arabs
 as ermeniyye.
  
 others believe that urartu was known in the time of the medes as 'harminap'
 which was later modified by the persians to 'arminia'. 'ar' refers to a
 place, as in ararat, archish, aruyr, archar, arshav, arazen and aror, 
 while 'men' is used to refer to spirit, thought or human being, and 
 therefore 'armen' would appear to signify 'the people of that place'.
 
 g. alishan believes that 'according to our national vocabulary "haik"
 is the diminutive form of "hai", and that "hai" is the name of our
 nation. our nation is in no way connected with the word "armen" that
 foreigners apply to our people.'
 
 it would thus appear that 'armenia' is a place-name, that 'armen' is 
 the name of the people who lived there, and that these are in no way
 connected with the word 'hai'.
 
 haik and haiastan:
 
 armenian historians believe haik to have been a great hero from whom
 the armenian people took the name 'hai'. but the mere resemblance
 between the words 'haik' and 'hai' constitutes no real proof, and,
 in any case, no such theory appears before the time of moses of
 khoren.
 
 haiasa:
 
 the following studies show quite clearly that 'hai' and 'haiasa' were
 no more than general names used by the hittites to refer to the 
 region known as armenia.
 
 professor hachadurian: 'haiasa was the general name used in hittite
 inscriptions for upper armenia.'
 
 yensen, in his 'hittites and armenians' tries to prove that 'hai' is
 identical with the hittite 'hatio', in other words that 'hai' is a
 hittite word. research, however, has proved this erroneous, and shown
 that 'hai' was derived from 'hatio'.
 
 mortman's attempt to read the urartu inscriptions as armenian met with 
 no success. as for greek, there is no point in even mentioning it.
 
 the resemblance between the words 'haiasa' and 'haiastan' is so obvious
 that we may well accept 'haiasa' as the oldest form of 'haiastan'.
 
 let us now cast a brief glance on how the words 'hai', 'haikazan' and
 'haiastan' entered our older works.
 
 according to karakashian: 
 
 'the word "haik" is never to be found employed with reference to a
 leader of the armenian people prior to moses of khoren, nor is it
 ever found employed in the forms "haika" or "haykazn".
 
 agahangelos and puzant use the word as a title or a place-name (he
 improved and developed haiastan, etc.). if the word had referred
 to a nation and had been derived from "hai" or "haik" they could 
 also have used the words "haikak" and "haykazn" in a number of
 places.'
 
 according to professor sayce, who deciphered a number of hittite 
 inscriptions:
 
 'in the hittite language the suffix -ha is used to specify quality
 or species. the words "haddanas", "haddina" were used by the 
 assyrians to refer to the hittites. with the transformation of the
 "d" between the two "a" letters to "y" "hadinasdani" was in this
 way transformed to "haiastan"'.
 
 professor grechmer fully agrees with this point of view, but regards
 the significance and explanation so far accorded to the terms 'hai'
 and 'haistan' as quite unsatisfactory. he finds, however, that a 
 solution to this problem is brought nearer by the name 'haiasa' 
 which is so frequently found in bogazkoy from 1400 b.c. onwards.
 forrer takes 'haiasa' as referring to upper armenia. in that case
 it seems likely that 'haiasa' was actually a part of armenia. the
 suffix -dan is of anatolian origin. the real root is 'hayasa', which
 refers to the country of the 'hayasas'.
 
 e. chantre writes as follows on the subject of the ethnological 
 and anthropological characteristics of the armenian people.
 
 the armenians in russia may be characterized as follows: almost
 all of them are brachycephalic or leptocephalic, very dark,
 above average height, an aissores asian group with close ties
 with certain kurdish tribes and azerbaijan peoples.
 
 according to j. deniker:
 
 from the philological point of view, the armenian and kurds may be
 regarded as belonging to the iranian group...the armenians are 
 descended from various elements and from a very mixed race. their
 average height varies between 1.63 and 1.69 according to the region.
 they are almost always short-headed, with skull measurements of 
 85-87. as a race they belong to the indo-afghan-assyrian-turkic
 family.
 
 professor rene vernont writes as follows:
 
 the armenians are a mixture of semites, turk, kurds and mongols,
 but some of them display armenian features, e.g., height a little
 above average, fair complexion, dark hair, dark eyes, very often
 a hooked nose and a rather wide mouth. 
 
 investigations carried out by n. kossovitch on the links between
 armenian blood groups and their anthropological characteristics
 led him to the conclusion that the armenians did not form a 
 distinct race.
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 