
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: rabin and his palestinians kapos
 
 
 rabin's plans for a palestinian police
 
 (from the other front, alternative information center,
 jerusalem, 5 may 1993)
 
 "the decision to view the setting up of a local police force 
 for (sic) the palestinians as the central issue for 
 deliberation at the peace talks to be resumed next week - 
 even before subjects like elections in the territories and 
 areas of juridiction in the framework of autonomy - is a 
 sign of the israeli government's serious attitude towards 
 the peace process.
 
 "the setting up of a police force is not part of the 'gesture 
 package', but deals with the very heart and substance of 
 the palestinian struggle for national identity. as it turns 
 out, the main objective guiding the prime minister in the 
 setting up of a palestinian police force - and apparently 
 also supported by foreign minister shimon peres - is to 
 ensure the holding of democratic elections in the 
 territories."
 
 thus writes amnon barzilai in his editorial (israeli daily 
 hadashot, 23 april), and his position articulates the 
 thinking of most of the commentators who dealt with this 
 issue in the past two weeks. over against them stand the 
 settlers and rightwing parties, who also interpret the 
 decision to encourage the establishment of a palestinian 
 police force as a significant step towards the instituting of 
 real autonomy, something which will restrict what can be 
 done by the jewish settlers in the west bank and gaza 
 strip. with a variety of demonstrations, including street 
 theater on 'what will happen when there is a palestinian 
 police force', rightwing elements are attempting to 
 frighten the israeli public and to pressure rabin to go 
 back on his decision. members of the kach movement 
 have even begun to organize a 'settler police force' in the 
 occupied territories, as counter-balance to the future 
 palestinian police force.
 
 however, as barzilai points out, the main function of the 
 new police force - as far as the israeli government is 
 concerned - has nothing to do with the settlers, over 
 whom they will apparently have no authority, but will 
 control political groups within the palestinian population, 
 whom the government is interested in neutralizing. 
 writes barzilai:
 
 "...according to ideas currently taking shape, the setting 
 up of a local police force in the territories will precede, 
 not only the stage of electsion, but also the final stages of 
 the preparing of the interim autonomy agreement.
 
 "the willingness of the israeli government to set up a 
 local palestinian police force is evidence that the 
 government is serious about arriving at a settlement with 
 the palestinians..."
 
 it's no wonder that the palestinian public is also greatly 
 worried about this new israeli initiative. and it is 
 inevitable that pressure will be brought to bear on faisal 
 husseini and the rest of the delegation members, from a 
 variety of directions, to refuse the gift which rabin would 
 like to give them. but at this stage, it looks like the 
 palestinians are cooperating in the fulfillment of his 
 plans.
 
 ----------------------------------------------------
 add'l comment by e.d.:
 numerous palestinians fear that israel might succeed in 
 co-opting some palestinian
 circles by this idea. they fear that a palestinian police 
 force, controlled in fact by israel, might act even more 
 brutally than the idf. the idea of using a surrogate police 
 force is not new. it is used by israel in lebanon and was 
 used by the nazis to control jewish ghetto-dwellers.
 
 
 
 
 