
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: help palestinian education
 
 
 how to help palestinian education
 
 (from 'educational network', no. 11, april 1993,
 publ. by ramallah friends schools, p.o.box 66, 
 ramallah, west bank, via israel
 tel. 972-2-956230,  fax. 972-2-956231)
 
 many of our readers have written to us asking how 
 individuals and organizations can help palestinian 
 education. we have compiled a list of suggestions to guide 
 you. if you are interested in pursuing one or more of 
 these suggested activities, the educational network can 
 aid you by /coordinating/ the initial contacts, /following 
 up/, and /providing any other support/ you may need.
 
 1.  link your teachers' union with a teachers' union here 
 --- linkage should be based on a shared pedagogical 
 enterprise.
 
 2. get your union to actively support the right of 
 palestinian teachers in the occupied territories to form 
 unions:
 
 a. through the international labor organization (if your 
 union is a member)
 b. contacting other international unions which have 
 supported our right to form a union -- we can supply 
 names and addresses.
 
 3. establish a scholarship fund for one or more 
 palestinian students to study at a palestinian university 
 or school -- or establish a scholarship fund for a 
 palestinian student or teacher to study at a university 
 abroad.
 
 4. reproduce and publish information about palestinian 
 education:
 
     a. for your union membership;
     b. for the outside community.
 
 the educational network can supply up-to-date 
 information and statistics.
 
 5. send delegations of teachers to visit the occupied 
 territories during periods when our schools are in 
 session.
 
 the network can arrange an itinerary, make hotel and 
 local travel arrangements, and provide a guide for the 
 visit.
 
 6. sponsor palestinian teachers to visit your city for an 
 educational tour:
 
       a. to see schools and speak with educators in order to
           learn about progressive pedagogical ideas and
            experiences;
 
       b. to speak about the conditions of palestinian
           education.
 
 the network will coordinate from palestine.
 
 7. establish teacher-exchange programs for one year in 
 which a palestinian teacher from a private school teaches 
 at a public or private school abroad while a teacher from 
 that school spends a year in a palestinian private school.
 
 8. send an experienced educator to the occupied 
 territories to give workshops (all-day workshops or two-
 day workshops) on innovative teaching techniques.
 
 the network will pay for the person's food, lodging, and 
 travel while in palestine, and will serve as guide.
 
 9. set up a pen-pal program with a palestinian school in 
 either english or french.
 
 10. set up a sister-school program with a palestinian 
 school which would actively involve teachers as well as 
 students at both schools -- a great tool for building 
 international understanding and mutual sensitivity.
 
 11. keep the educational network informed about 
 important educational conferences so that we can send a 
 palestinian teacher to attend.
 
 12. send to the educational network articles or other 
 writings or books dealing with innovative approaches and 
 ideas in the field of education so that we can then 
 disseminate the information locally.
 
 13. support an educational development project in the 
 occupied territories.
 
 
 
 
 