
 in article <30929@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >sedar,
 
 it is 'serdar', 'kocaoglan'.
 
 >your second quote by sahak melkonian is very frankly invented.  
 
 just love it. well, it could be your head wasn't screwed on just right.
 if that does ever happen, look out the window and see if there is a 
 non-fascist x-soviet armenian government in the east.
 
  "in soviet armenia today there no longer exists a single turkish soul.
   it is in our power to tear away the veil of illusion that some of us
   create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial
   life-support system of an imagined 'ethnic purity' that some of us
   falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
   in this alien land."
             (sahak melkonian - 1920 - "preserving the armenian purity") 
 
 >if you are  going to lie and invent quotes at least use the right date.  
 
 you sound like asala/sdpa/arf idiots/clowns/crooks. if you prefer to 
 imagine that u.s. ambassador bristol and armenian/jewish scholars were 
 trying to mislead 'arromdians', be my guest. a typical armenian clown.
 
 source: "u.s. library of congress": 'bristol papers' - general 
          correspondence container #34.
 
  "while the dashnaks [x-soviet armenian government] were in power they 
   did everything in the world to keep the pot boiling by attacking kurds, 
   turks and tartars; by committing outrages against the moslems; by 
   massacring the moslems; and robbing and destroying their homes. during 
   the last two years the armenians in russian caucasus have shown no 
   ability to govern themselves and especially no ability to govern or 
   handle other races under their power."
 
 source: general bronsart wrote as follows in an article in the july 24, 
         1921 issue of the newspaper "deutsche allgemeine zeitung:"
 
 "since all the moslems capable of bearing arms were in the turkish army,
  it was easy to organize a terrible massacre by the armenians against
  defenseless people, because the armenians were not only attacking the
  sides and rear of the eastern army paralyzed at the front by the 
  russians, but were attacking the moslem folk in the region as well."
 
 source: john dewey, "the turkish tragedy", the new republic, volume 40, 
         november 12, 1928, pp. 268-269.
 
  "they [armenians] boasted of having raised an army of one hundred 
   and fifty thousand men to fight a civil war, and that they burned at 
   least a hundred turkish villages and exterminated their population."
 
 
 >armenia was not a soviet republic in 1920!!!  so sorry to burst your little 
 >bubble.  
 
 what a clown...let us ask armenian scholars - shall we? 
 
 source: hovannisian, richard g.: armenia on the road to independence, 1918.
 university of california press (berkeley and los angeles), 1967, p. 13.
 
 "the addition of the kars and batum oblasts to the empire increased the
  area of transcaucasia to over 130,000 square miles. the estimated population
  of the entire region in 1886 was 4,700,000, of whom 940,000 (20 percent) were
  armenian, 1,200,000 (25 percent) georgian, and 2,220,000 (45 percent) moslem.
  of the latter group, 1,140,000 were tatars. paradoxically, barely one-third
  of transcaucasia's armenians lived in the erevan guberniia, where the 
  christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven uezds. erevan
  uezd, the administrative center of the province, had only 44,000 armenians
  as compared to 68,000 moslems. by the time of the russian census of 1897,
  however, the armenians had established a scant majority, 53 percent, in the
  guberniia; it had risen by 1916 to 60 percent, or 670,000 of the 1,120,000
  inhabitants. this impressive change in the province's ethnic character 
  notwithstanding, there was, on the eve of the creation of the armenian 
  republic, a solid block of 370,000 tartars who continued to dominate the 
  southern districts, from the outskirts of ereven to the border of persia." 
  (see also map 1. historic armenia and map 4. administrative subdivisions of 
  transcaucasia).
 
 in 1920, '0' percent turk. 
 
 "we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
  ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
  of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village. 
  little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts 
  into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
  and inhabitants fled from them into fields, bullets and bayonets 
  completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
  found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
  into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
  length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to 
  akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
  plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
  tartar villages. they are quiet now, those villages, except for 
  howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
  scattered bones of the dead." 
 
                              ohanus appressian
                             "men are like that"
                                    p. 202.
 
 >as for your other quote, i would love to know the source.  
 
 just say so.
 
 source: "men are like that" by leonard ramsden hartill. the bobbs-merrill
 company, indianapolis (1926). (305 pages). 
 (memoirs of an armenian officer who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
  million muslim people)
 
 "foreword:"
 
 "for example, we were camped one night in a half-ruined tartar mosque, 
  the most habitable building of a destroyed village, near the border 
  of persia and russian armenia. during the course of evening i asked 
  ohanus if he could tell me anything of the history of the village and 
  the cause of its destruction. in his matter of fact way he replied, yes, 
  i assisted in its sack and destruction, and witnessed the slaying of 
  those whose bones you saw to-day scattered among its ruins." 
 
 p. 202 (first and second paragraphs).
 
 "we closed the roads and mountain passes that might serve as 
  ways of escape for the tartars and then proceeded in the work 
  of extermination. our troops surrounded village after village. 
  little resistance was offered. our artillery knocked the huts 
  into heaps of stone and dust and when the villages became untenable 
  and inhabitants fled from them into fields, bullets and bayonets 
  completed the work. some of the tartars escaped of course. they 
  found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in crossing the border 
  into turkey. the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
  length of the borderland of russian armenia from nakhitchevan to 
  akhalkalaki from the hot plains of ararat to the cold mountain 
  plateau of the north were dotted with mute mournful ruins of 
  tartar villages. they are quiet now, those villages, except for 
  howling of wolves and jackals that visit them to paw over the 
  scattered bones of the dead." 
 
 p. 15 (second paragraph).
 
 "the tartars were, for the most part, poor. some of them lived in villages 
  and cultivated small farms; many of them continued in the way of life of 
  their nomadic forefathers. they drove their flocks and herds from valley 
  to valley, from plain to mountain, and from mountain to plain, following 
  the pasturage as it changed with the seasons. they ranged from the salt 
  desert shores of the caspian sea far into the mighty caucasus mountains. 
  even the village tartars are a primitive people, only semicivilized."
 
 "i can see now that we armenians frankly despised the tartars, and, while 
  holding a disproportionate share of the wealth of the country, regarded and
  treated them as inferiors. the fact that the russians looked down upon all
  armenians in much the same way as armenians regarded tartars, far from proving
  a bond between ourselves and our racially different neighbors, intensified
  an attitude and conduct on our part that served only to exacerbate hostility."
 
 p. 20 (second paragraph).
 
 "our men armed themselves, gathered together and advanced on the tartar
  section of the village. there were no lights in the houses and the doors
  were barred, for the tartars suspected what as to happen and were in great 
  fear. our men hammered on the doors, but got no response; whereupon they
  smashed in the doors and began a carnage that continued until the last
  tartar was slain. throughout the hideous night, i cowered at home in terror,
  unable to shut my ears to the piercing screams of the helpless victims and
  the loud shouts of our men. by morning the work was finished."
 
 p. 109 (second paragraph).
 
 "as things were, the members of the dashnack party were without administrative
  experience; consequently the government they instituted quickly proved itself
  incompetent to rule by legitimate means.
 
  the members of the government had been revolutionists working in secret and
  outside the law. when they became a legally instituted, recognized governing
  body with the destiny of armenia in their hands, they proved incompetent to 
  do better than resume the terrorist tactics that had characterized their 
  fight against the russian and turkish governments in their outlaw days.
 
  the outstanding feature of their rule, now that they were in power, was,
  as in the old days, trial and execution without hearing. a man evoking
  the displeasure of the government or of some official would be tried and
  condemned without arrest or preference of charges against him. the method 
  of execution was for a government 'mauserist' to walk up behind the
  condemned man in his home or on the street, place a pistol to the back
  of his head and blow out his brains. this simple way of getting rid of
  those who were undesirable in the view of the government and soon became
  a common way of paying debts."
 
 p. 203 (first paragraph).
 
 "a soldier succeeded in driving his bayonet through the tartar. i saw the
  point of the weapon emerge through his back. ...another soldier seized a rock 
  and pounded the tartar's head with it... the armenian who had bayoneted him
  sprang to his feet, wrested the weapon from the tartar's body, and, raising
  it to his lips, licked it clean of blood, exclaiming in russian, 'slodkey!
  slodkey!' (sweet.)"
 
 p. 203 (second paragraph).
 
 "one evening i passed through what had been a tartar village. among the 
  ruins a fire was burning. i went to the fire and saw seated about
  it a group of soldiers. among them were two tartar girls, mere children.
  the girls were crouched on the ground, crying softly with suppressed
  sobs. lying scattered over the ground were broken household utensils and
  other furnishings of tartar peasant homes. there were also bodies of the
  dead."
 
 p. 204 (first paragraph).
 
 "i was soon asleep. in the night i was awakened by the persistent crying of
  a child. i arose and went to investigate. a full moon enabled me to make
  my way about and revealed to me all the wreck and litter of the tragedy
  that had been enacted. guided by the child's crying, i entered the yard of
  a house, which i judged from its appearance must have been the home of a
  turkish family. there in a corner of the yard i found a women dead. her
  throat had been cut. lying on her breast was a small child, a girl about a
  year old."
 
 p. 118.
 
 "slowly the train of oxcarts lumbered along through the snow, the cart
  jolting and the loads swaying. boys ran along the line of oxen, encouraging
  them with shrill tartar cries, and belaboring the beasts with sticks. in the
  carts, the women, veiled as is the tartar way, held children in their arms.
  wrapped in blankets and huddled among the goods that burdened the carts they
  sought protection from the wind and cold. a few old men plodded along on foot.
 
  across the road through the ravine a barrier had been thrown. the leading
  oxteam reached this barrier and halted. the gunmen and other ruffians 
  concealed among the rocks opened fire. women and children leaped and
  scrambled from the carts, screamed, ran and sought vainly for safety.
 
  this massacre was not complete. the armenian soldiers in the near-by 
  barracks, hearing the firing and the turmoil, hurried to the scene....
  that same day the abandoned tartar quarter of alexandropol was looted
  and completely destroyed."
 
 p. 192.
 
 "great swarms of peasants who had come out of their hiding-places on the
  retreat of the turks followed our army as it advanced.... they entered
  into the city with the army and immediately began plundering the stores
  that had been left by the turks."
 
 p. 193.
 
 "terrible vengeance was taken upon tartars, kurds and turks. their villages
  were destroyed and they themselves were slain or driven out of the country."
 
 p. 195.
 
 "the fanatical dashnacks hated the turks above all others and then in order
  of diminishing intensity: tartars, kurds and russians." 
 
 p. 218. (first and second paragraphs)
 
 "russian troops did terrible things in the turkish villages...we armenians 
  did not spare the tartars....if persisted in, the slaughtering of prisoners, 
  the looting, and the rape and massacre of the helpless become commonplace 
  actions expected and accepted as a matter of course.
 
  i have been on the scenes of massacres where the dead lay on the ground,
  in numbers, like the fallen leaves in a forest. they had been as helpless
  and as defenseless as sheep. they had not died as soldiers die in the
  heat of battle, fired with ardor and courage, with weapons in their hands,
  and exchanging blow for blow. they had died as the helpless must, with
  their hearts and brains bursting with horror worse than death itself."
 
 p. 133 (first paragraph)
 
 "in this movement we took with us three thousand turkish soldiers who
  had been captured by the russians and left on our hands when the russians
  abandoned the struggle. during our retreat to karaklis two thousand of
  these poor devils were cruelly put to death. i was sickened by the
  brutality displayed, but could not make any effective protest. some,
  mercifully, were shot. many of them were burned to death. the method
  employed was to put a quantity of straw into a hut, and then after
  crowding the hut with turks, set fire to the straw."
 
 p. 19 (first paragraph)
 
 "the tartar section of the town no longer existed, except as a pile of
  ruins. it had been destroyed and its inhabitants slaughtered. the same 
  fate befell the tartar section of khankandi."
 
 p. 22 (second paragraph)
 
 "many of our men had served in the russian army, and were trained soldiers.
  we armenians were rich and possessed arms. tartars had never received
  military training. they were poor, and possessed few arms beyond knives.
  ...shortly after the killing of the tartars in our village, the revolution
  in russia was suppressed."
 
 p. 97 (third paragraph)
 
 "within a few years, following the beginning of the movement, an invisible
  government of armenians by armenians had been established in turkish 
  armenia in armed opposition to the turkish government. this secret 
  government had its own courts and laws and an army of assassins called
  'mauserists' (professional killers) to enforce its decrees."
 
 p. 98 (first paragraph)
 
 "the dashnacks were in continual open rebellion against the turkish 
  government."
 
 p. 98 (third paragraph)
 
 "...the dashnacks engineered a general revolt of armenians in turkish
  armenia under the mistaken belief that european nations would intervene
  and secure independence for turkish armenia."
 
 p. 99 (second paragraph)
 
 "the dashnacks were fanatics."           
 
 p. 99 (third paragraph)
 
 "the dashnacks took advantage of this situation and extended their 
  revolutionary activities into the russian province. they instituted 
  a campaign of terrorism and employed threats and force in securing
  contributions to the party funds from rich armenians. a wealthy
  man would be assessed a stipulated sum. refusal to pay brought upon
  him a sentence of death. 
 
  every member of the party was pledged to carry out orders without 
  question. if a man were to be assassinated, lots might be drawn to
  select an executioner or the job might be assigned to one of the
  'mauserists' of the party."
 
 p. 130 (first paragraph)
 
 "...in moments of victory against turks and kurds or tartars, they 
  [armenians] have been remorseless in seeking vengeance."
 
 p. 130 (third paragraph)
 
 "the city was a scene of confusion and terror. during the early days of 
  the war, when the russian troops invaded turkey, large numbers of the 
  turkish population abandoned their homes and fled before the russian 
  advance."
 
 p. 159 (second paragraph)
 
 "i made a cannon, a huge gun to lift which required four men. i made balls
  for it. with my cannon the armenians could knock down any of the tartar
  houses and so they were able to drive the tartars out."
 
 p. 181 (first paragraph)
 
 "the tartar villages were in ruins."
 
 p. 189 (third paragraph)
 
 "the dead tartar lay with his head in a pool of mud and blood, his 
  beard still setaceous and now crimsoned."
 
 need i go on?
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 