
 
 reflections on bosnia
 
 lord owen and the serbs
 
 in early february '93, lord owen made appearances in new york city
 on the donahue and charlie rose shows. on a couple of occasions on
 those shows lord owen gave away his pro-serbian position when he
 made the point that much or most of the bosnian territory then in
 dispute or already overrun by serbian forces had been controlled
 and occupied by serbs before wwii.  it was as if he were saying
 that since the serbs had previously occupied those territories and
 lost them during the hitler years, they should be allowed to
 reconquer them today.
 
 i was familiar with this view because my father, a yugoslav jew
 who escaped to this country during the war, was aided and found
 sympathy among the serbs during those harrowing years.  in recent
 months when the subject of serbian aggression was mentioned, my
 father would make the point that 850,000 serbs were killed by nazi
 and pro-nazi croatian forces known as the ustasha.  my father is
 so pro-serbian that he dismissed reports of serbian atrocities. my
 father also excoriated new york times columnist anthony lewis,
 because, my father said, anthony lewis "is always talking about
 the muslims."
 
 update--april 28, 1993 after an uneasy truce in and around
 sbernica, shelling has resumed in nearby areas by all sides and
 the killing and the misery continues apace while the clinton
 administration dithers its response.  in the days leading to the
 collapse of resistance at sbernica, lord owen changed his tune.
 previously he had opposed military intervention on the grounds
 that it would endanger u.n. relief workers. when serbian forces
 began to march on sbernica, the threat to u.n. relief soldiers
 went unmentioned while lord owen called for outside intervention
 to stop serbian aggression, including the use of air strikes.  the
 current disastrous situation can be seen as a failure of the west
 and a failure of the vance-owen initiative which did nothing to
 halt the serbs. now that it's too late to save muslim areas that
 lord owen felt should be in a muslim state, lord owen belatedly
 calls for strong action.
 
 clinton and bosnia
 
 in the summer of 1992, george kenney, a senior state department
 official, the undersecretary in charge of the yugoslav desk, made
 news when he resigned from the state department because of the
 bush administration's refusal to take any action to halt serbian
 aggression.  as kenney saw it, bush's inaction was largely due to
 the president's unwillingness to risk any political capital by
 getting involved there.
 
 apparently the same is true of the clinton administration.
 clinton gives the impression that he cares more than bush did
 about the terrible ongoing tragedy, but the practical effect has
 so far been the same.
 
 according to the new york times, (4/16/93) the clinton
 administration did everything it could to suppress a mid-march
 report by its own experts which called for military action if
 necessary to protect "safe havens" for the muslims. at one point,
 senate majority leader, george mitchell was so incensed that the
 report was kept from congress, that he called for an
 investigation.
 
 instead of helping the desperate bosnians, clinton has signalled
 again and again that milosevic and the serbs are free to do what
 they want in bosnia--indeed, clinton and the west have been
 signalling that the serbs should get on with the job and finish
 off the bosnians as quickly as possible while we turn the other
 way.  a key signal was when clinton made it clear that he would
 not send in american military forces on the ground.  on this
 issue, clinton has made me wistful for bush.  bush and baker could
 not have done worse, and might have been pressured to do better
 well before this time.  lives in bosnia might have been saved and
 the destruction might have been curtailed..
 
 the nation, the left and "the bosnian quandary"
 
 typical of the left's inability to come to grips with the core
 issue involved in bosnia, i.e., a clear aggressor destroying
 hundreds of thousands of lives, is the editorial on the "bosnian
 quandary" in the nation (4/26/93).  in the end the editorial votes
 to do nothing, even while noticing "the ghastly atrocities of the
 bosnian serbs"  and that the "greater and lesser powers...dither
 and fuss [and] hang back." ("before anything else happens, the
 clinton administration ought to pay the $530 million the united
 states owes the" u.n. the editorial concludes.)
 
 in its most striking passage, the editorial writer warns that
 "those who are pushing president clinton to intervene on the side
 of the bosnians had better review u.s. foreign policy since world
 war ii."  the editorial argues for inaction on the basis that the
 bosnian serbs are no worse than any number of u.s. clients
 including the chileans, the south africans, the greek fascists and
 others. (in a subsequent column for the nation, christopher
 hitchens correctly called this editorial, "contemptible.")
 
 ***
 
 william pfaff, a european based journalist who writes for the the
 new yorker and the los angeles times, is among a group of liberal
 columnists like anthony lewis, and leslie gelb who have clearly
 and consistently called for strong western and american
 intervention to stop the serbs.  pfaff's most recent column
 (liberal opinion week 4/19/93) is entitled "international
 cowardice worsened bosnian tragedy."
 
 he clarifies the international failure which has led to present
 situation in one sentence. "having refused to intervene to
 sanction the threat to minority rights in newly independent
 croatia in june 1991, or to block or penalize the military
 aggression by serbia that immediately followed, and the atrocious
 "ethnic cleansing" which followed that, the united nations now
 contemplates deploying in bosnia military force on a scale which
 two years ago could have deterred the horrors yugoslavia has since
 experienced."  he goes on to explain that u.n. plans now envisaged
 call for a "more daunting and open-ended military assignment than
 a direct military intervention to halt the aggression would have
 been a year ago."
 
 aryeh neier on the serbs in his "watching rights" column in the
 the nation (5/3/93) aryeh neier gets to the heart of the
 motivation of the "aggressors"--the preferred term for the serbian
 forces who have been besieging and shelling sarajevo for more than
 a year.  he explains that "there is no  military purpose that is
 served by the destruction of its fabric and its people...above
 all, few of those aligned with the forces attacking sarajevo would
 want to live there even if the city could be rebuilt.  they are
 not city people.
 
 "it is this, i believe--aside from a desire to break the morale of
 bosnians and make them press their government to accept peace at
 any price--that explains the conduct of the siege of
 sarajevo...[i]t is a loathing for all that is urban, pluralist and
 cosmopolitan that has made sarajevo the object for devastation.
 
 "historically, most of the serbian population in bosnia and
 herzegovina has been rural, while muslims, who were the civil
 servants and intelligentsia during the centuries of ottoman rule,
 made up a disproportionate share of the urban population....the
 destruction of sarajevo is not only an expression of hostility
 against this city; it is also an attack on the urban idea....the
 demagogues who whipped up the passions let loose by this war
 exploited not only ethnic and religious bigotry but also hatred
 for all that is cosmopolitan."
 
 the light that neier sheds on the issue helps to clarify what is
 at stake.  the serbs represent the know-nothing, anti-secularist,
 fundamentalist, fascist forces who are attacking the urban,
 cosmopolitan, secular, multi-cultural idea.  they are attacking
 the rest of us, just as hitler did. one irony is that at the
 beginning of the crisis over bosnia, it was for awhile maintained
 by the serbs and their supporters that they were responding to a
 threat by the bosnian muslims to create a fundamentalist state.
 
 neier has shown that it is the serbs who are  the great threat to
 secularism, multi-culturalism, diversity and democracy.  it's the
 serbs who are attacking the democratic notion, the democratic
 idea.
 
 anthony lewis comes close to the point when he asks why does
 respect for clinton's presidency "depend...on his acting
 effectively against serbian aggression?...first of all because to
 do nothing about genocide would be such a betrayal of the values
 we and our allies profess."  (times, 4/26/93) but it's not merely
 a betrayal of our values.  it's because the serbs are attacking us
 by proxy, just as hitler was.
 
 one argument for decisive action by the west that is heard in a
 different form, is that war in the balkans is destablizing for
 europe.  we hear it as, the bosnians are europe's palestinians;
 that is to say, just as the palestinian refugee problem has been
 the key to instability in the middle east, just so will the
 hundreds of thousands of yugoslav refugees of all ethnicities
 result in turmoil in europe for decades to come.
 
 one of the lessons of the twentieth century is that even though
 the atlantic ocean divides us, the americas are ultimately tied to
 the destiny of europe. if europe is destabilized, the u.s. will
 inevitably be affected and drawn into its problems.  as in a
 whirlpool,  sooner or later we will be drawn into the maelstrom.
 and as past history and pfaff have shown, it's much better if we
 do so decisively, quickly and on our terms.
 
 sincerely, ronald bleier
 
 