
 in article <30925@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >you know it is true don't you?
 
 well, apparently we have another son of dro 'the butcher' to contend with. 
 you should indeed be happy to know that you rekindled a huge discussion on
 distortions propagated by several of your contemporaries. if you feel 
 that you can simply act as an armenian governmental crony in this forum 
 you will be sadly mistaken and duly embarrassed. this is not a lecture to 
 another historical revisionist and a genocide apologist, but a fact.
 
 i will dissect article-by-article, paragraph-by-paragraph, line-by-line, 
 lie-by-lie, revision-by-revision, written by those on this net, who plan 
 to 'prove' that the armenian genocide of 2.5 million turks and kurds is 
 nothing less than a classic un-redressed genocide. we are neither in 
 x-soviet union, nor in some similar ultra-nationalist fascist dictatorship, 
 that employs the dictates of hitler to quell domestic unrest. also, feel 
 free to distribute all responses to your nearest asala/sdpa/arf terrorists,
 the armenian pseudo-scholars, or to those affiliated with the armenian
 criminal organizations.
 
 x-soviet armenian government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million 
 turkish men, women and children and is enjoying the fruits of that genocide. 
 you, and those like you, will not get away with the genocide's cover-up.
 
 during the first world war and the ensuing years - 1914-1920, 
 the armenians through a premeditated and systematic genocide, 
 tried to complete its centuries-old policy of annihilation against 
 the turks and kurds by savagely murdering 2.5 million muslims and 
 deporting the rest from their 1,000 year homeland.
 
 the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance
 of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people.
 this event is incontrovertibly proven by historians, government
 and international political leaders, such as u.s. ambassador mark 
 bristol, william langer, ambassador layard, james barton, stanford 
 shaw, arthur chester, john dewey, robert dunn, papazian, nalbandian, 
 ohanus appressian, jorge blanco villalta, general nikolayef, general 
 bolkovitinof, general prjevalski, general odiselidze, meguerditche, 
 kazimir, motayef, twerdokhlebof, general hamelin, rawlinson, avetis
 aharonian, dr. stephan eshnanie, varandian, general bronsart, arfa,
 dr. hamlin, boghos nubar, sarkis atamian, katchaznouni, rachel 
 bortnick, halide edip, mccarthy, w. b. allen, paul muratoff and many 
 others.
 
 j. c. hurewitz, professor of government emeritus, former director of
 the middle east institute (1971-1984), columbia university.
 
 bernard lewis, cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history,
 princeton university.
 
 halil inalcik, university professor of ottoman history & member of
 the american academy of arts & sciences, university of chicago.
 
 peter golden, professor of history, rutgers university, newark.
 
 stanford shaw, professor of history, university of california at
 los angeles.
 
 thomas naff, professor of history & director, middle east research
 institute, university of pennsylvania.
 
 ronald jennings, associate professor of history & asian studies,
 university of illinois.
 
 howard reed, professor of history, university of connecticut.
 
 dankwart rustow, distinguished university professor of political
 science, city university graduate school, new york.
 
 john woods, associate professor of middle eastern history, 
 university of chicago.
 
 john masson smith, jr., professor of history, university of
 california at berkeley.
 
 alan fisher, professor of history, michigan state university.
 
 avigdor levy, professor of history, brandeis university.
 
 andreas g. e. bodrogligetti, professor of history, university of california
 at los angeles.
 
 kathleen burrill, associate professor of turkish studies, columbia university.
 
 roderic davison, professor of history, george washington university.
 
 walter denny, professor of history, university of massachusetts.
 
 caesar farah, professor of history, university of minnesota.
 
 tom goodrich, professor of history, indiana university of pennsylvania.
 
 tibor halasi-kun, professor emeritus of turkish studies, columbia university.
 
 justin mccarthy, professor of history, university of louisville.
 
 jon mandaville, professor of history, portland state university (oregon).
 
 robert olson, professor of history, university of kentucky.
 
 madeline zilfi, professor of history, university of maryland.
 
 james stewart-robinson, professor of turkish studies, university of michigan.
 
 .......so the list goes on and on and on.....
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 