
 in article <30946@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >nice strategy sedar, maybe if you can make up so many stories about what  
 >happened in wwi you will confuse everybody into forgetting the armenian  
 
 ah, those poor genocide apologists. such quaintly charming habits of the
 armenian barbarism and fascism. no swinging of lies will be enough to cover 
 up the crimes of the x-soviet armenian government. not a chance. now let 
 the kurdish scholars speak for themselves.
 
 source: hassan arfa, "the kurds," (london, 1968), pp. 25-26.
 
  "when the russian armies invaded turkey after the sarikamish disaster 
   of 1914, their columns were preceded by battalions of irregular 
   armenian volunteers, both from the caucasus and from turkey. one of 
   these was commanded by a certain andranik, a blood-thirsty adventurer.
   these armenian volunteers committed all kinds of excesses, more
   than six hundred thousand kurds being killed between 1915 and 1916 in 
   the eastern vilayets of turkey."
 
 sources: (the ottoman state, the ministry of war), "islam ahalinin 
 ducar olduklari mezalim hakkinda vesaike mustenid malumat," (istanbul, 1918). 
 the french version: "documents relatifs aux atrocites commises par les armeniens
 sur la population musulmane," (istanbul, 1919). in the latin script: h. k.
 turkozu, ed., "osmanli ve sovyet belgeleriyle ermeni mezalimi," (ankara,
 1982). in addition: z. basar, ed., "ermenilerden gorduklerimiz," (ankara,
 1974) and, edited by the same author, "ermeniler hakkinda makaleler -
 derlemeler," (ankara, 1978). "askeri tarih belgeleri ...," vol. 32, 83
 (december 1983), document numbered 1881.
 "askeri tarih belgeleri ....," vol. 31, 81 (december 1982), document
  numbered 1869.
 
 "those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning
  with the excuse of forced labor in road construction, they were taken
  in the direction of sarikamis and annihilated. when the russian army
  withdrew, a part of the remaining people was destroyed in armenian
  massacres and cruelties: they were thrown into wells, they were locked
  in houses and burned down, they were killed with bayonets and swords, in places
  selected as butchering spots, their bellies were torn open, their lungs
  were pulled out, and girls and women were hanged by their hair after
  being subjected to every conceivable abominable act. a very small part 
  of the people who were spared these abominations far worse than the
  cruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were suffering
  from temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had lived
  in and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.
  including women and children, such persons discovered so far do not
  exceed one thousand five hundred in erzincan and thirty thousand in
  erzurum. all the fields in erzincan and erzurum are untilled, everything
  that the people had has been taken away from them, and we found them
  in a destitute situation. at the present time, the people are subsisting
  on some food they obtained, impelled by starvation, from russian storages
  left behind after their occupation of this area."
  
 
 source: "adventures in the near east" by a. rawlinson, jonathan cape, 
 30 bedford square, london, 1934 (first published 1923) (287 pages).
 (memoirs of a british officer who witnessed the armenian genocide of 2.5 
  million muslim people)
 
 p. 184 (second paragraph)
 
  "i had received further very definite information of horrors that
   had been committed by the armenian soldiery in kars plain, and as 
   i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
   treatment of my own detached parties, i had wired to tiflis from 
   zivin that 'in the interests of humanity the armenians should not 
   be left in independent command of the moslem population, as, their 
   troops being without discipline and not under effective control, 
   atrocities were constantly being committed, for which we should 
   with justice eventually be held to be morally responsible'."
 
 p. 177 (third paragraph)
 
  "armenian troops, who, having pillaged and destroyed all the
   moslem villages in the plain...."
 
  "caravans of refugees were in the meanwhile constantly arriving from the
   plain, from which the whole moslem population was fleeing with as much of
   their personal property as they could transport, seeking to obtain security
   and protection..."
 
 p. 178 (first paragraph)
 
  "in those moslem villages in the plain below which had been searched 
   for arms by the armenians everything had been taken under the cloak of 
   such search, and not only had many moslems been killed, but horrible 
   tortures had been inflicted in the endeavour to obtain information as 
   to where valuables had been hidden, of which the armenians were aware 
   of the existence, although they had been unable to find them."
 
 p. 181 (first paragraph)
 
  "the armenians from the plain were attacking the kurdish line with 
   artillery, with probably a large force in support."
 
 p. 175 (first paragraph)
 
  "the arrival of this british brigade was followed by the announcement
   that kars province had been allotted by the supreme council of the
   allies to the armenians, and that announcement having been made, the
   british troops were then completely withdrawn, and armenian occupation
   commenced. hence all the trouble; for the armenians at once commenced
   the wholesale robbery and persecution of the muslem population on the
   pretext that it was necessary forcibly to deprive them of their arms.
   in the portion of the province which lies in the plains they were able
   to carry out their purpose, and the manner in which this was done will
   be referred to in due course."
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 