
 in article <30947@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >i suspect it might have to do with pan-turkism blinding certain people.
 
 you don't get it - do you? during the years of world war i, the x-soviet 
 armenian government has planned and perpetrated the 'genocide' of the 
 muslim people, which not only took the lives of 2.5 million muslim people, 
 but was also the method used to empty the turkish homeland of its inhabitants. 
 to this day, turkish historic lands remain occupied by the x-soviet armenia. 
 in order to cover up the fact of its usurpation of the historic turkish 
 homeland, which is the crux of turkish political demands, fascist x-soviet 
 armenia continues its anti-turkish policy in the following ways:
 
 1. x-soviet armenia denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide
 in order to shift international public opinion away from its political
 responsibility.
 
 2. x-soviet armenia, employing asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism 
 triangle, attempts to call into question the veracity of the turkish 
 genocide.
 
 3. x-soviet armenia has also implemented state-sponsored terrorism through
 the asala/sdpa/arf terrorism and revisionism triangle in an attempt to 
 silence the turkish people's vehement demands and protests.
 
 4. using all its human, financial, and governmental resources, x-soviet
 armenia and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through
 terrorism, bribery and other subversive methods, non-turkish supporters
 of the turkish cause, be they political, governmental and humanitarian.
 
 using all the aforementioned methods, the x-soviet armenian government 
 is attempting to neutralize the international diplomatic community from
 making the turkish case a contemporary issue.
 
 yet despite the efforts of the x-soviet armenian government and its 
 terrorist and revisionist organizations, in the last decades, thanks 
 to the struggle of those whose closest ones have been systematically 
 exterminated by the armenians, the international wall of silence on 
 this issue has begun to collapse, and consequently a number of 
 governments and organizations have become supportive of the recognition 
 of the turkish genocide.
 
 with the full knowledge that the struggle for the turkish territorial
 demands are still in their initial stages, the turkish and kurdish people
 will unflaggingly continue in this sacred struggle, therefore the victims
 of the turkish genocide demand:
 
 1. that the x-soviet armenian government, as the heirs of the armenian 
 dictatorship, recognize the turkish genocide;
 
 2. that x-soviet armenia return the historic homeland to the turkish and
 kurdish people;
 
 3. that the x-soviet armenian government make material reparations for 
 their heinous and unspeakable crime to the victims of the turkish genocide;
 
 4. that all world governments, and especially the united states, officially
 recognize the turkish genocide and turkish territorial rights and refuse
 to succumb to all armenian political pressure;
 
 5. that the u.s. government free itself from the friendly position it 
 has adopted towards its unreliable ally, x-soviet armenia, and officially 
 recognize the historical fact of the turkish genocide as well as be 
 supportive of the pursuit of turkish territorial demands;
 
 6. that the x-soviet republics officially recognize the historical fact 
 of the turkish genocide and include the cold-blooded extermination of 
 2.5 million muslim people in their history books.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 