
 
 elias davidsson writes...
 
 ed> dear pete,
 ed> 
 ed> for one who is so zionist as you, you should at least know your
 ed> hebrew, young man.
 ed> 
 ed> the last sentence in your posting should read:
 ed> 
 ed> medina achat leshnai amim (not echad medionnot leshtai amim).
 ed> 
 ed> i don't want to address your comments. they speak for themselves.
 ed> 
 ed> best regards from a palestinian of jewish origin who talks, reads and writes
 ed> hebrew and does not hate jews nor anybody else. 
 ed> 
 ed> elias
  
     the above claim that you do not hate anybody may not be quite
     true.  the falsity of this statement is easily visible in the
     intellectual corruption that dominates everything you post in
     this group.  your complete lack of objectivity toward israel, 
     and jewish identity in general, reveal biases that indicate a
     great steaming heap of hatred!
     
     you certainly have shown a genuine hatred for honesty and for
     objectivity. you repeatedly post items or quotes removed from 
     their original context so that they can be used to further an 
     agenda of rabid opposition to the very existence of israel.
 
     you have used this dishonest technique to paint a false image 
     of several israeli leaders.  i can't say if you actually hate
     these leaders, but the lies and misrepresentations of them do
     suggest that you have a visceral prejudice against them.
     
     so, while you claim that you do not hate anybody, there is an
     ample body of evidence to suggest that this claim of yours is 
     false.  it is obvious that you hate israel, and it is evident
     that you hate the jewish people.
 
     and, if you are jewish, you are a self-hating jew.  there can
     be no doubt of this.  although you will call upon your jewish
     background in an effort to claim the high moral ground, there
     is no doubt that you would like to see the jewish people fade
     away completely, as a people.  your advocacy of intermarriage
     for the purpose of dissolving the jewish people is proof that 
     you hate the jewish people.
 
     and by your effort to superimpose the meaninglessness of your
     own jewishness on all jews, you've clearly demonstrated to me 
     that you hate yourself.
                       
                       *       *       *       *
 
     "who is a jew?  a person whose integrity decays when unmoved 
     by the knowledge of wrong done to other people." 
                                                    
                                                    a. j. heschel
  
 