
 in article <c751nd.l92@inviso.com> robbiew@inviso.com (robbie westmoreland) writes:
 
 >answer: don't ask.  don't even think about it.  just put this line into your
 >global kill file:
 
 well, does it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920, 
 the armenian government ordered, incited, assisted and participated 
 in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race, religion
 and national origin?
 
 between 1914 and 1920, 2.5 million turks perished of butchery at the 
 hands of armenians. the genocide involved not only the killing of 
 innocents but their forcible deportation from the russian armenia. 
 they were persecuted, banished, and slaughtered while much of ottoman 
 army was engaged in world war i. the genocide treaty defines genocide 
 as acting with a 
 
   'specific intent to destroy, in whole or in substantial part, a 
    national, ethnic, racial or religious group.' 
 
 history shows that the x-soviet armenian government intended to eradicate 
 the muslim population. 2.5 million turks and kurds were exterminated by the 
 armenians. international diplomats in ottoman empire at the time - including 
 u.s. ambassador bristol - denounced the x-soviet armenian government's policy 
 as a massacre of the kurds, turks, and tartars. the blood-thirsty leaders of 
 the x-soviet armenian government at the time personally involved in the 
 extermination of the muslims. the turkish genocide museums in turkiye honor 
 those who died during the turkish massacres perpetrated by the armenians. 
 
 the eyewitness accounts and the historical documents established,
 beyond any doubt, that the massacres against the muslim people
 during the war were planned and premeditated. the aim of the policy
 was clearly the extermination of all turks in x-soviet armenian 
 territories.
 
 the muslims of van, bitlis, mus, erzurum and erzincan districts and
 their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed.
 the massacres in trabzon, tercan, yozgat and adana were organized and
 perpetrated by the blood-thirsty leaders of the x-soviet armenian 
 government.
 
 the principal organizers of the slaughter of innocent muslims were
 dro, antranik, armen garo, hamarosp, daro pastirmadjian, keri,
 karakin, haig pajise-liantz and silikian.
 
 source: "bristol papers", general correspondence: container #32 - bristol
          to bradley letter of september 14, 1920.
 
 "i have it from absolute first-hand information that the armenians in 
  the caucasus attacked tartar (turkish) villages that are utterly 
  defenseless and bombarded these villages with artillery and they murder
  the inhabitants, pillage the village and often burn the village."
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 