
 in article <30962@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >> during the period of 1914 to 1920, the armenian government 
 >> ordered, incited, assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million 
 >> muslim people because of race, religion and national origin? the x-soviet
  
 >my gosh!!! sedar, what armenian government???  armenia didn't even become  
 
 no wonder you clown are in such a mess. let's take sarkis atamian's (an 
 armenian dashnak sociolog) book, "the armenian community", pages 97 and 
 105. atamian quotes:
 
  "... the immediate question concerned itself with the organization and
  tactics of revolution. the liberation of armenia, the immediate aim of
  the party, was to be attained by:
 
       1. oral and written propaganda.
       2. terrorism - both as punishment against the enemy and as a measure
          of self defense. 
       3. the creation of an avant-garde of revolutionary groups to be
          equipped and prepared for action when other nations were prepared
          for a general uprising.
       4. the organization of larger committees to be in constant contact with
          each other and subject to a central body.
       5. organization of units of guerilla fighters."
 
 now, on page 105, atamian's book quotes of armenian constitution:
 
  "... if the means was revolution, how was the revolution to be attained?
  by:
 
       1. propaganda 
       2. preparation of combat units and their indoctrination
       3. encouragement of the revolutionary morale of the people
       4. the arming of the people
       5. organization of revolutionary committees
       6. espionage throughout the country and the exchange of information with
          the official bodies and journals
       7. organization of financial zones for public collection 
       8. 'fighting and using' the weapon of the terror on corrupt government
          officers, spies, traitors, grafters, and all sorts of oppressors
       9. defense of the people against attacks from the brigandry
      10. building of roads for the transport of arms
      11. wrecking and looting of governmental institutions."
 
 many of the recent armenian terrorist acts against the turkish people 
 were committed by the brainwashed members of the "tzeghagron", namely, 
 "race-worshipers" of the dashnag youth organization. ironically, again, 
 tzeghagron was set up by an undisputed armenian nazi, karekin nejdeh,
 in 1941 (see atamian, loc cit, page 389).
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 