
 in article <30976@galaxy.ucr.edu> raffi@watnxt08.ucr.edu (raffi r kojian) writes:
 
 >serdar,
 
 the above explained propaganda which certainly has nothing to do with 
 the true facts is also today the main source of asala/sdpa/arf terrorists'
 illegal activities that still try to make money out of the bodies of 
 the innocent victims of the turkish genocide.
 
 the criminal acts of the x-soviet armenian government come directly
 under the scope of the convention on genocide adopted by the general 
 assembly of the united nations on december 8, 1948, containing the 
 following provisions:
 
 the contracting parties, having considered the declaration made 
 by the general assembly of the united nations in its resolution
 95 (1) dated december 11, 1946, that genocide is a crime under
 international law, contrary to the spirit and aims of the united
 nations and condemned by the civilized world;
 
 recognizing that in all periods of history genocide has inflicted
 great losses on humanity; and
 
 being convinced that, in order to liberate mankind from such odious
 scourge, international cooperation is required;
 
 members agree as hereinafter provided:
 
 article 1. the contracting parties confirm that genocide, whether
 committed in time of peace or in time of war, is a crime under 
 international law which they undertake to prevent and to punish.
 
 article 2. in the present convention genocide means any of the
 following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or
 in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as 
 such:
 
 a) killing member of the group;
 b) causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group;
 c) deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life 
    calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole 
    or in part;
 d) imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group;
 e) forcibly transferring children of the group to another group;
 
 article 3. the following acts shall be punishable:
 
 a) genocide
 b) conspiracy to commit genocide
 c) direct and public incitement to commit genocide
 d) attempt to commit genocide.
 
 article 4. persons committing genocide or any of the other acts
 enumerated in article 3 shall be punished, whether they are
 constitutionally responsible rulers, public officials or private
 individuals.
 
 had the convention on genocide existed before the armenian 
 massacres of the turks and kurds, it would probably have been 
 difficult for the x-soviet armenian government and its responsibles
 to start murdering of civilian, defenseless, faithful ottoman
 citizens, children and women, (genocide and attempt to genocide),
 to make plans to exterminate, as they have done also to urartus
 and jews, faithful ottoman citizens (conspiracy to commit genocide), 
 to incite armenians to armed revolt against the legal authority
 and to commit genocide, (direct and public incitement to commit
 genocide).
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 