	<benali.737564776@alcor>
 nntp-posting-host: po4.andrew.cmu.edu
 in-reply-to: <benali.737564776@alcor>
 
  
 
 ilyess sez: 
   >so how would have *you* defended saudi arabia and rolled 
   >back the iraqi invasion, were you in charge of saudi arabia??? 
   
   all muslims knew that the whole thing was set up to destroy iraq, not 
   to "liberate kuwait", the people who were killed by the invasion are 
   more (many many more), than the ones that were killed by the iraqis 
   in their smaller invasion. i lived in the west, and i have seen how 
   your media prepared you (helpless naive americans) for a war against 
                                                     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
 no doubt you plan on exploiting "helpless naive americans" for your own
 purposes. hmm...let's see: 
 
   iraq even before the artificial conflict between iraq and kuwait that 
   led to the invasion, as the cia correctly predicted (and pretended to 
   be surprised not to know). 
   it just happened that saddam was so predictible and so arrogant and stupid. 
 
   what would i have done: most muslims would choose 300 dead kuwaitis   over 
   200,000 dead iraqis and 1000 dead kuwaitis. the first case would happen 
   if no western intervention happened, and the second case was a direct 
   or indirect result of western envolvement. 
 
 possibly, if 200,000 iraqis had indeed died, but this number is based on
 greenpeace estimates.  greenpeace had compromised its alleged
 impartiality during the war by condemning the potential environmental
 consequences of allied miiltary action, while initially *completely*
 ignoring iraq's horrible environmental crimes, starting with the dumping
 of millions of barrels of oil into the gulf at ahmadi to the blowing of
 over 700 oil wells.  what is the real number?  there has been a lot of
 work on this in the last two years, none of it reported as the
 greenpeace figure seems to get continuously bandied about.  the real
 number seems to be around 10,000, on the same order as the number of
 kuwaitis killed, tortured and kidnapped during the occupation.  i've
 included an article i recently posted below, but this is really old
 news.  independent television news reported a figure around 15,000 only
 a few months after the war, but it was hardly reported. 
 
 for the allies to have killed 200,000 iraqis, they would have had to
 kill twice the *total* number of iraqis in kuwait. 
 
 the favored image of the hysterics is the last battle of the war at
 mutla'.  this was yet another example of the american and european media
 playing into the hands of iraq and its de facto allies.     the
 destruction of the iraqi convoy at mutla' was portrayed as an all-out
 slaughter.  this is simply not true.  the head and tail of the convoy
 was bombed initially, resulting in a lot of casualties at these points. 
  before bombers came back, most of the rest of the iraqi soldiers fled
 on foot. 
 
 furthermore, your estimates of kuwaiti war dead if allies hadn't invaded
 is completely ridiculous.  you have acknowledged (certainly implicitly) 
  that saddam is a barbarous brute.  you have acknowledged the hundreds
 of thousands he has been responible for killing *in his own country*. 
 you *know* that the man he appointed as governor of kuwait,  ali majid,
 was his most brutal henchman, presiding over the near genocide of the
 kurds  in the late 80's and, more recently, the shi'a.    yet, when it
 comes to his treatment of kuwaitis, he is an angel.  in your estimate,
 he would've killed *fewer* than he already had when the war started. 
 what a joke! 
 
 
 apn  03/09 0006  iraq war dead 
 
 copyright, 1993. the associated press. all rights reserved. 
 
 by nick ludington 
  associated press writer 
    washington (ap) -- after the persian gulf war ended, the world was
 told that 
 as many as 100,000 iraqi soldiers were killed. at one point, even baghdad put 
 the toll that high, as did the u.s. defense intelligence agency in private. 
    but u.s. officials have been backpedaling ever since, even though the 
 pentagon has yet to settle on an official estimate to release to the public. 
 now, one former dia analyst says the number of iraqi troops killed may
 have been 
 as low as 1,500. 
    that conclusion by john heidenrich, writing in the current issue of the 
 quarterly magazine foreign policy, represents the lowest estimate yet
 from u.s. 
 defense sources. 
    the revisions suggesting a less devastating iraqi toll fit a pattern of 
 vastly moderated u.s. military claims in the months after the war ended.
 claims 
 for a number of u.s. weapons also were scaled down. 
    despite the dramatic videotapes of successful weaponry or the shocking 
 pictures of iraq's disastrous retreat from kuwait, arguments have continued 
 unabated about what really happened in the gulf war. 
    heidenrich is not the first to question the iraqi death toll numbers that 
 originally were aired. more that a year ago, air force lt. gen. charles
 horner, 
 the commander of the air campaign in the gulf war, said he believed the iraqi 
 military death toll was fewer than 10,000 for the entire war. 
    the pentagon itself still refuses to provide an estimate of the number of 
 iraqis who died in the 42-day war against the u.s.-led coalition in
 january and 
 february 1991. on monday, pentagon spokesman lt. cmdr. joe gradisher
 reiterated 
 past statements that "there just isn't a number," that is credible. 
    but some current internal estimates range from 8,000 to 25,000 iraqi troops 
 killed, said one analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity, who is familiar 
 with the pentagon's reports. 
    allied deaths were put at 146 americans, 35 by friendly fire; 24 british, 9 
 by american fire; 2 frenchmen, 1 italian and 39 among various arab allies. 
    of the postwar reassessments, the most widely publicized was the army's 
 reluctant acknowledgement, months later, that its touted patriot air defense 
 system was nowhere near so effective as claimed against iraq's scud missiles. 
 the bush administration initially claimed an almost perfect record for the 
 patriot; last spring it revised the hit ratio to 60 percent. 
    the success record of the navy's tomahawk high-tech cruise missile used 
 against targets in baghdad and other parts of iraq also turned out to be more 
 modest than initially indicated by the pentagon. 
    the first iraqi casualty figures to surface after the war came in a
 may 1991 
 report by the environmental group greenpeace, which said 100,000 to 120,000 
 iraqi soldiers were killed. it estimated that 5,000 to 15,000 iraqi civilians 
 were also killed. 
    the same month, published reports said the defense intelligence agency 
 estimated 100,000 iraqi soldiers were killed and 300,000 wounded in the
 air and 
 ground campaigns -- although the agency qualified that by saying the estimate 
 could be off by as much as 50 percent in either direction. 
    but as more information became available, those figures gradually were 
 revised downward. 
    the house armed services committee staff estimated 9,000 dead and 17,000 
 wounded after a review last year. 
    but heidenrich, writing in the current issue of the quarterly foreign
 policy, 
 estimated the total death toll from both the air and ground offensives
 as low as 
 1,500 -- with about 3,000 wounded. 
    heidenrich based the conclusion in his article on the number of
 bodies found 
 and buried by u.s. troops -- 577 -- and on prisoner of war interviews.
 he noted 
 that only about 2,000 of 69,000 iraqi prisoners of war were wounded. 
    based on the calculation that about half as many wounded escaped as were 
 captured, he put the number of wounded at about 3,000. using a conservative 
 ratio of one dead to two wounded, applicable to third world armies like
 iraq, he 
 set battlefield deaths at 1,500. 
    "maybe the figures are too low," he wrote. "maybe the real death toll
 on the 
 battlefield was 2,000 or 3,000 or even 6,000. even then, the evidence
 suggests a 
 death toll of well below 100,000 -- or even 10,000." 
    in an interview, he said the 100,000 figure was obviously off base
 because it 
 would mean that virtually all the iraqi soldiers in the kuwait theater of 
 operations were casualties. 
    he said today's bloodiest wars were not those fought with high technology, 
 but rather the drawn-out conflicts such as those in yugoslavia and somalia. 
 
 
 
  
 