
 in article <1th4mg$53f@usenet.ins.cwru.edu> aa824@cleveland.freenet.edu (mark ira kaufman) writes:
 
 >    for arab armies to attack israel on yom kippur?  i suppose it
 >    is brave to slaughter athletes at the olympics?  or maybe you
 
 armenians have been doing just that for a long, long time.
 
 source: "hagop hagopian said to have been part of 1972 terror attack at
 munich olympic games," the armenian reporter, february 7, 1985, p. 1.
 
 "le matin, the influential paris daily, based on unidentified sources,
 claimed last week that hagop hagopian, the founder and leader of one
 faction of the armenian secret army for the liberation of armenia (asala),
 was among the arab terrorists who staged an attack on the living quarters
 of israeli athletes at the 1972 olympic games...
 
 le matin added that up to 1982, hagopian operated out of beirut, lebanon,
 but escaped from the country when israeli forces entered the city. it was
 about this time that a statement issued by asala claimed that mr. hagopian
 was dead of wounds suffered during a bombing by the israeli air force,
 although it is generally believed that the mysterious leader is alive and
 well and presently is residing alternately in damascus, syria, and
 athens, greece. the paper also noted that the socialist government of
 prime minister andreas papandreou and his p.a.s.o.k. party accepted the
 armenian underground leader with "open arms" and still providing him
 with assistance simply because of greece's traditional enmity with turkey.
 
 le matin further adds that asala derives only a small portion of its
 expenditures from wealthy armenians who support the cause, with the rest 
 coming either from other sources or from proceeds of an involvement in
 drug trafficking."
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 