
 
 from: center for policy research <cpr>
 subject: arab h.r. assoc.,nazareth
 
 
 the arab association for human rights
 p.o. box 215
 nazareth, 16101 israel
 phone (972)-6-561923
 fax (972)-6-564934
 
 the arab association for human rights (hra) was 
 formed in 1988 to address discriminatory practices and 
 human rights abuses by israel against its palestinian 
 citizens.
 
 it is a unique association concerned with the civil, 
 political, economic, social and cultural rights of the 
 palestinian national minority in israel. among the issues 
 of concern are land confiscation, education, prison 
 conditions, unemployment, torture and the unequal 
 allocation of israel's resources.
 
 today there are around 800,000 palestinian arabs living 
 within the green line (the pre-1967 borders of israel), 
 constituting 18% of israel's citizens. for them it is an 
 empty citizenship in a system geared exclusively for the 
 needs of the jewish population. legally and practically, 
 israel has proclaimed itself a jewish state and early 
 promises of equality for non-jewish citizens have not 
 been fulfilled. this is apparent in many areas strongly 
 affecting the palestinian national minority.
 
 most arab agricultural land has been confiscated since 
 1948. the arab sector is vastly underfunded and does 
 not receive a fair share of state resources. on a day-to-
 day level, palestinians face discrimination in many 
 different forms and find it is a struggle to get permission 
 to build a house, start a business, find a job or educate 
 their children.
 
 activities
 
 - monitoring civil, economic, cultural and human rights 
 abuses of palestinians within the green line.
 - taking carefully selected test cases to court.
 - providing legal advice and assistance to lawyers in the 
 occupied territories.
 - educating the palestinian public as to their rights and 
 methods of mobilization.
 - conducting public campaigns on local and international 
 levels.
 - researching and publishing pertinent publications.
 
 
 
 
 