
 in article <9305240240.aa07039@dumbo.mem.odu.edu> farid@mem.odu.edu (f. h. miandoab) writes:
 
 the following news from turan news agency in baku-azerbaijan
 is brought to you as a service of:
 
                   <azerbaijan aydinlig association>
                          p.o. box 14571
                        berkeley, ca 94701
                       fax: (804) 490-3832
                     email: farid@mem.odu.edu
 
 p l e a s e make a hard copy of the news available to an azerbaijani near you!
 //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
 h e a d l i n e s |
 
 * the new vice-premier plans to intensify the work on the attraction of
   western investments 
 * the proposal to summon special session of the supreme soviet is rejected
   again
 * the prospects of trade/economic cooperation between azerbaijan and estonia 
 * azerbaijan does not intend to join the cis common economic zone 
 * the questions of granting credit to azerbaijan will be discussed in moscow 
 * azerbaijan will reply to the second variant of trilateral initiative by 26
   of may 
 * the announcement of the prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan 
 * azerbaijan's parliament intends to appeal to russian parliament regarding
   the six accused soldiers
 * armenians are preparing more "karabakhs" on the north caucasus
 * state assistance for national minority development
 * memorandum of cooperation on extracting oil-gas fields of azerbaijan was
   signed
 * armenia taking advantage of the prosecution of six russian soldiers 
 * new provocations of armed forces of armenia 
 * "unocal" company will build 50 houses for refugees in azerbaijan 
 * manat is beginning to fall in value 
 * the discussion of parliamentary election bill will last till mid july 
 * isa gambar suggests that azeri-russian parliament commission for clarifying
   the circumstances of the criminal case be created 
 * will the trilateral initiative be ruined? 
 * fate of 645 million tons of oil will be decided this summer 
 * the scientists-lawyers of russia appealed to the president of azerbaijan
 * armenian artillery continues firing on azeri districts
 * azeri prime-minister is leaving for great britain 
 
 
 the new vice-premier plans to intensify the work on the attraction of
 western investments
 
   baku (may 19) turan: yesterday, rasul guliyev, the recently appointed
 vice-premier of the republic, received the us ambassador in azerbaijan,
 richard miles. as "azerbaijan" newspaper informs, the issue of attraction
 of western investments in azerbaijan was discussed in the meeting. in
 particular, gulyiev stated that western capital has to be investigated in
 the most profitable spheres of manufacture. he also noticed, that the number
 of the priority manufactures will be released from debts. 
 guliyev also said that intensifying the activities of the american oil 
 companies will promote the strengthening of the american-azeri relations.
 
 
 the proposal to summon special session of the supreme soviet is rejected again
 
    baku (may 19) turan: yesterday, in the sitting of the milli mejlis,
 the chairman, isa gambar, rejected the proposal of the deputy arif
 rahimzade to summon a special session of the supreme soviet of azerbaijan.
   this written proposal to summon a session was signed by 130 deputates. but
 the chairman said that the signatures were invalid and the proposal couldn't
 be submitted for discussion.
    earlier, the leadership of the milli mejlis called the proposal to summon
 a special session of the supreme soviet a coup attempt. but the deputy for
 the parliament, rahimzade, doesn't consider that the deputates have the 
 objective of removing milli mejlis and its chairman from the power. it concerns the
 serious analysis of the social, economic and foreign policy activity of the
 republic's authority. rahimzade said that the deputates for the parliament,
 ejected from their duties one year ago have the rights to express their opinion
 on these questions.
    the supreme soviet of azerbaijan (340 deputates) was dissolved one year ago,
 when it attempted to bring ayaz mutalibov back to the power.
    the functions of s.s. were handed over to milli mejlis, consisting of 50
 deputates (25 "democrats" and 25 "partocrates"). at that time "democrats" and
 "partocrates" came to an agreement that milli mejlis wouldn't exist for a long 
 time and would be dissolved after parliamentary elections. at the same time,
 the deputates ejected from their duties were guaranteed that they could summon
 a session of the supreme soviet any time and went in for political activity out
 of the parliament. --0--
 
 
 the prospects of trade/economic cooperation between azerbaijan and estonia
 
     baku (may 19) turan: the prospects of signing trade-economic agreement
 between azerbaijan and estonia were discussed in the meeting of the foreign 
 minister tofig gasimov with the group of experts of the ministry of economics,
 minister of foreign affairs and estonian bank administration on may 18. 
 the group of experts is headed by tikht reiman, the chief of the ministry of
 economics of estonia.
    the mia of azerbaijan informed turan agency, that in their stay in baku,
 the delegation will also visit ministry of economics and national bank of the
 republic.--0--
 
 
 azerbaijan does not intend to join the cis common economic zone
 
    baku (may 19) turan: deputy prime-ministers of the republic, vahid
 ahmedov and abbas abbasov declared that azerbaijan wouldn't join the cis
 common economic zone.
    vahid ahmedov considers that the cis economic zone proposal to create a 
 common tax system contradicts independent economic policy of the republic. 
 according to abbas abbasov, the pact of cooperation proposals, submitted for
 the discussion of the leaders of cis states in moscow on may 14, has a number
 of unfavorable points for azerbaijan.
    such announcements of two deputy prime-ministers sound sensational on the
 background of the fact that the president of azerbaijan and the chairman of
 the parliament noted the necessity of the republic on joining the cis economic
 zone.--0--
 
 
 the questions of granting credit to azerbaijan will be discussed in moscow
 
      baku (may 19) turan: today, azerbaijani delegation headed by the director
 of the foreign relation department of the ministry of finance of the republic
 along with the representatives of the national bank will leave for moscow to
 hold consultation with russian government on granting credit to azerbaijan. 
 according to the preliminary information, the credit will be 50 billion rubles.
     as press-centre of ministry of finance informed turan's correspondent, 
 precise amount of the credit, conditions of its repay and a number of other
 questions of mutual interest will be discussed in the course of the meeting in
 moscow. it is known that this credit will be mostly used for mutual settling
 of industrial enterprises of azerbaijan and russia.
     when the sides reach the agreement, it is proposed for signing by the end 
 of may.--0--
 
 
 azerbaijan will reply to the second variant of trilateral initiative by 26 of
 may
 
      baku (may 19) turan: on the measures for peace presented by russia,
 turkey and the usa to azerbaijan and armenia, the representative of the
 president of azerbaijan in the talks on nagorno-karabakh, asim gasimov noted
 that the plan was not seriously changed in comparison with the first variant.
      "just some comments to several points were added to the schedule by 
 insistence of the armenian side. we do not intend to come back to the analysis
 of the schedule, because we have given a positive answer to it on may 6",- said
 gasimov.
      the representative of the president of azerbaijan informed that they just
 began to work on the examination of the commentary, and their answer would be 
 given as requested by the authors of trilateral initiative by may 26.
      as it is known, the first variant of the peace measures was rejected by
 armenia, which put forward a number of pre-conditions for its acceptance.--0--
 
 
 the announcement of the prosecutor of the republic of azerbaijan
 
    baku (may 20) turan: the azerbaijani prosecutor's office has announced
 that the russian mass media's attempt to portray the 6 russian soldiers 
 condemned by the military board of the azerbaijani supreme court, as innocent
 people is unjustified.
     accounts of the witnesses and the confessions of the condemned themselves,
 prove that their crimes were committed together with the armenian military units
 and with the knowledge of the headquarters of the russian army unit, where they
 served.
     the announcement points out that the attempts to represent these soldiers
 as ordinary mercenaries who have nothing to do with the russian army are also 
 unfounded. for there are irrefutable evidences that these soldiers were on the
 list of one of the military unit's of russian commandos in yerevan.
    certain russian circles try to conceal the fact of direct participation of
 the russian army in the undeclared war of armenia against azerbaijan from the
 russian community. azerbaijan's prosecutor's announcement follows, that this
 type of actions can make the situation in the region much more complicated.--0--
 
 
 azerbaijan's parliament intends to appeal to russian parliament regarding the
 six accused soldiers
 
      baku (may 20) turan: as turan agency was informed, parliament of azerbaijan
 is considering the question of appealing to russian parliament about the six
 accused soldiers' fortune. in particular, the offer to send the representatives
 of the commission on military affairs of the armed forces of russian federation
 to baku for the detailed study of the results of six russian soldiers' case will
 be directed to russian parliament.
      according to one of the supporters of this offer, such initiative will give
 russian parliament the possibility to be convinced of the correctness of the
 investigation. there will also be a chance to discuss the reasons that have
 given rise to the present situation - that is the russian troops participation
 in the war against azerbaijan.
 
 
 armenians are preparing more "karabakhs" on the north caucasus
 
      baku (may 20) turan: the national-liberation front founded by group of 
 armenians living on the north caucasus appealed to establish armenian autonomies
 on the territories of rostov, stavropol and krasnodar regions, - reported the
 newspaper "russky vestnik" on march 9, 1993 published in geneva.
      the north caucasus is regarded as an integral part of armenia in the 
 documents of this organization. admitting the non-realizability of "reunion" of
 the north caucasus and "armenia proper" at present, the front is appealing to 
 the un, presidents of russia, armenia and the united states to consider the
 need to establish armenian autonomies on the caucasus.
      to attain these goals, the armenian organization considers it necessary to
 carry out on the north caucasus the forms and methods of activity "identical to
 those in nagorno karabakh". besides the decision to fund cells of armenian
 national-liberation fronts in every settlement and to appeal to leaders of
 armenian terrorist groups in greece and iran to sent to the north caucasus 
 instructors for training of armenian youth to wage secret wars was adopted.
      thus according to the newspaper "russky vestnik", "new karabakhs" are 
 being planning on the north caucasus. --o--
 
 
 state assistance for national minority development
 
      baku (may 20) turan: the meeting headed by the state secretary of
 azerbaijan, ali kerimov, with the participation of the national cultural
 centers was held in baku. the first results of the realization of the president
 elchibey's decree on state assistance for the development of language and
 culture of national minorities adopted on september 16, 1992 were considered. 
      the state secretary called this decree as an important step to establish a
 legal democratic state. he confirmed once more the commitment of the leadership
 of azerbaijan to set up a democratic society in which the rights of all 
 nationalities and ethnic groups would be respected.
      the state counsellor of the president of azerbaijan on the national policy,
 hidayat orujev, announced that in spite of the difficulties of the "undeclared
 war" against the republic, the leaders of the state managed to solve many 
 problems concerning the satisfaction of cultural and other needs of the ethnic
 groups. 
      for today, all 33 national-cultural centers registered by the ministry of
 justice in the capital of azerbaijan are provided with accommodation, furniture 
 and means of communication. all the accommodations are rent-free ( 8 foreign
 diplomatic missions in baku are placed in the hotels because of the absence of
 free accommodations including the representation of the un general secretary). 
      as it was noted, a great work was carried out since the decree was adopted
 to create conditions for total development of the ethnic groups. on the north of
 azerbaijan where lezghins live, a national lezghin theater was opened, 
 radiocast is transmitted in lezghin. the work over the creation of the
 educational literature for talyshs, tats, lezghins and kurds and national
 teaching and scientific staff is being carried out in the academy of sciences
 of azerbaijan.--o-- 
 
 
 memorandum of cooperation on extracting oil-gas fields of azerbaijan was signed
 
      baku (may 20) turan: as turan agency was informed in the state 
 concern "azerineft", the memorandum of understanding with the companies
 "amoco caspian sea petroleum", "bi-pi exploration operating", "pennzoil
 caspian", "unocal khazar ltd.", "mcdermott" and turkish oil corporation on
 mutual extracting of fields "azeri", "chirag" and "gyuneshli" was signed. 
 according to the memorandum, the general group on preparing of a common
 program of activity was created. 
      according to the president of "azerineft", sabit bagirov, cooperation
 will provide for using the experience of foreign companies more efficiently. 
      during the project, the main principles will be the effective use of
 oil-gas resources, the rational sharing of investments, the reducing of
 exploitation expenditures and maximizing the profit of azerbaijan from the
 exploitation of these fields. 
 the memorandum also envisions the necessity to take into account the historical
 and political-economical interests of azerbaijan under optimum use of oil-gas
 fields. --o--
 
 
 armenia taking advantage of the prosecution of six russian soldiers
 
      baku (may 21) turan: after azerbaijani court passed sentence on 
 six russian soldiers fighting on the armenian side in karabakh,
 armenian propaganda has become actively involved.
      the armenians living in russia appealed to the president yeltsin
 with a request "to display firmness in asserting the rights of russian
 soldiers". at the same time, armenian mass media call legal proceedings
 on the case in baku as "a farce aimed at getting more arms from russia".
      the karabakh armenians have issued a threat recently. if one could
 believe the yerevan agency "snark", the armenians in karabakh presented
 an ultimatum to authorities in azerbaijan. the essence of this ultimatum
 is that if russian soldiers are not shown mercy, three azeri prisoners in
 karabakh will be shot dead.
      it is simple to explain such "touching attitude of armenians" to
 the six russian soldiers' fate. if by chance the sentence is executed
 it will cause not anti-azeri but anti-armenian reaction, as the accused
 russian soldiers were recruited in yerevan by the former defence minister
 of armenia and then transferred to karabakh.
      if the soldiers get mercy, armenian side will think highly of its
 saving of lives of "innocent russians". --o--
 
 
 new provocations of armed forces of armenia
 
      baku (may 21) turan: according to the defence ministry of
 azerbaijan on may 20-21, the firing on the territories of azerbaijan
 from the military bases on the territory of armenia was in progress.
      the day before, the villages of kolly-gyshlag, shotaraz,
 nyachaflar of zangelan district of azerbaijan were under fire from
 kafan district of armenia. two inhabitants were wounded, there were
 destructions in the villages.
      on may 20, the firing on the villages of bashkend, mutudere,
 shynykh, novosaratovka and novoivanovka of kedabek district of
 azerbaijan from the positions of armenian armed forces was in
 progress.
      at the same day the diversion group of the armed forces of
 armenia (50-60 men) violated the frontier of azerbaijan, penetrated
 into the territory of kedabek district of azerbaijan, killed two
 shepherds at the village of aili-dara and made an attempt to take a
 flock across the frontier. azeri frontier-guards stopped the enemy.--o--
 
 
 "unocal" company will build 50 houses for refugees in azerbaijan
 
      baku (may 21) turan: as turan agency was informed by the
 representation of unocal american oil company, the leaders of this
 company decided to give 750 thousand dollars for the construction of
 50 houses for refugees.
      at present, the american side suggested a village project for 
 consideration by appropriate departments of azerbaijan. the project
 is a farm village where each house has a personal lot, subsidiary
 accommodations and so on.
      according to the program the construction and putting into
 operation of the village will be this year. --o--
 
 
 manat is beginning to fall in value
 
      baku (may 21) turan: lately, at the black market of baku, the
 national currency - manat, fell in price compared with the russian
 ruble. thus one gives 1100 rubles or 120 manats for one us dollar.
 taking into account the official exchange-value of the manat with 
 respect to ruble which is 1-10, the national currency fell in value
 10 percent. meanwhile the exchange-value of the manat to the ruble is
 the same at banks, state establishments and in trade.
      according to the representatives of the business circles and
 experts, the present situation is explained by the fact that the rubles
 are bought by the local businessmen. they need rubles for financial
 operations in russia. as the remittance of payments from the republics
 of the former ussr to russia is a great problem now, many businessmen
 arrange deals in cash. taking into consideration the volume of business 
 with russia, counted by billions, it is not hard to imagine how much 
 rubles in cash the businessmen need. --o--
 
 
 the discussion of parliamentary election bill will last till mid july
 
     baku (may 22) turan: according to the president's decree, the
 expert group, including representatives of the parliament and 
 presidential apparatus, are working out new wording of the constitution
 of the republic of azerbaijan. this must be adopted by milli mejlis before
 the parliamentary elections. together with this, the work on the new
 constitution, that would be, evidently, adopted by new parliament of
 the country, is going on. the newsmen were informed about the work on the
 press-conference of the supreme soviet of the republic the day before.
     parliamentary legal experts, safa mirzoyev, simran hasanov and 
 representatives of the department of the president's apparatus fazil mustafaev
 and shahin aliev took part in the press-conference.
     the national discussion of the project of the parliamentary
 election law is going on at present. according to simran hasanov the bill
 didn't cause any objections. it was noted, that until now, no alternative
 variant of the election law was put forward.
    the newsmen were also informed, that parliamentary commissions
 will examine all coming proposals till june 10. by june 15 all
 proposals will be generalized and submitted for discussion in milli mejlis.--0--
 
 
 isa gambar suggests that azeri-russian parliament commission for 
 clarifying the circumstances of the criminal case be created
 
    baku (may 22) turan: the chairman of the milly mejlis of the
 azerbaijan republic, isa gambar, sent the return letter to the chairman
 of the russian supreme soviet ruslan khasbulatov in connection with
 the conviction of the russian servicemen lieutenant v.semion, sergeant
 k. tukish, m.lisov and a.filipov by the military college of the
 supreme court of azerbaijan.
    in his letter, isa gambar suggested that the commission of azerbaijan
 milly mejlis deputates on a par with the experts of the russian supreme
 soviet be established to clarify the circumstances of this criminal
 case. in his view, "the conclusion of the commission could help in the 
 objective solving of this problem, as well as such kind of problems
 in the future. but the main thing is, it could help to promote the
 knowledge about involvement of the russian servicemen in crime".
    in its turn, in connection with the russian parliament message,
 milly mejlis adopted a resolution on may 19, according to which the
 permanent commissions on government building and legal policy, human
 rights and international relations are charged with the exploration of
 this problem.--0--
 
 
 will the trilateral initiative be ruined?
 
       baku (may 22) turan: as turan agency was informed, russian representative
 to the talks on karabakh, vladimir kazimirov, doubted in realization of the 
 trilateral initiative. he expressed this opinion during a telephone talk with
 the representatives of azerbaijan. at the same talk he declared, that in case
 the peace process deadlocked, russia would pursue yeltsin's initiative itself.
      such statement from the russian diplomat, who is one of the authors
 of the trilateral initiative, suggests that the russian leadership is
 paving the way for complete exclusion of the usa and probably turkey from
 the peacemaking process. this statement can also mean, that russia and
 us having achieved understanding on bosnian problem, have agreed on partial
 us departure from transcaucasia.--0--
 
 
 fate of 645 million tons of oil will be decided this summer
 
    baku (may 22) turan: the president of azerbaijan state oil company,
 sabit bagirov, declared recently that complete treaty on development of
 oil fields chirag, azeri and guneshli would be signed this summer.
 as it is known, western oil companies amoco, bp-statoil, pennzoil-
 ramco have an interest on development of these three richest caspian
 fields.
    according to the plan, socar and bp-statoil are to sign a complete
 treaty on development of chirag field on june 16. later amoco and
 pennzoil will sign treaties.
    specialists value total reserves of these three fields to be 645
 million ton. 310 million of them fall on azeri field, 180 mln.ton
 on geneshli and 150 mln.ton on chirag.
    the exploitation of these fields is to last tens of years and it is to
 bring in azerbaijan 100 billion dollars in revenue. in addition to the net
 economic profit, baku calculates upon the political support of the west in
 the defence of its interests at the international scene.
    as president elchibey said in his closest encirclement "the may of
 1993 will be one of the most difficult periods for azerbaijan and its
 independence and we have to stand these tests".--0--
 
 the scientist-lawyers of russia appealed to the president of azerbaijan
 
    baku (may 22) turan: as the press-service of the president of azerbaijan
 informs, today, the appeal of the institute of the government and law of the
 russian academy of sciences to president elchibey was received.
 the appeal contains the call "to display mercy, humanism and clemency 
 on the death sentences of the former servicemen of the russian armed
 forces".
    the authors of the appeal point out, that they don't justify the
 participation of the russian servicemen in the war against the azeri people,
 don't call in question the lawfulness of the passed sentence, denounce
 the mercenary according to the un principals, and they are sorry about the
 russian servicemen being drawn in such grave crime.
     at the end of their letter, scientists, mentioning the soldiers'
 mothers' tears and grief, their praying day and night of safety, ask the
 president of azerbaijan to "save those guys".
    it should be noticed, that unlike lawyers, soldiers' mothers,
 taking part in the inquiry, called the cause of their grief only
 russian policy. according to their words, the leaders, that lay down
 lives of russian men to achieve their political aims, must be made
 answerable.
     unfortunately, the appeal didn't mention the grief of the mothers
 of azerbaijani soldiers, killed by sentenced russian servicemen.--0--
 
 
 armenian artillery continues firing on azeri districts
 
      baku (may 22) turan: on may 22, two soldiers of national army of
 azerbaijan were killed during the "grad" shelling of the villages of
 kolly gyshlag, shaifly, shotaraz, nyachaflar of zangelan district of
 the republic from the territory of kafan district of armenia.
      the night before and in the morning of may 22, the villages of
 tovuz, gazakh and gubatly districts of azerbaijan were under fire
 from the territory of armenia. there are destructions. 
      the situation in agder district of azerbaijan became complicated. 
 on may 21, the enemy fired on the regional centre of agdere from the
 village of ortakend. the transportation of man power and military equipment
 to this district is in progress. according to reports the enemy is setting
 up a new weapon emplacement to fire on the regional centre and near by
 villages.
      according to the ministry of internal affairs, the concentration
 of man power and military equipment is observed in krasnoselsky
 district of armenia which borders on azerbaijan as well as on the
 frontier with fizuli district. --o--
 
 
 azeri prime-minister is leaving for great britain
 
   baku ( may 22 ) turan : the minister of foreign economic relations,
 rauf garayev, in his interview to turan agency said, that
 "great britain is the biggest foreign economic partner of azerbaijan
 after iran". the business cooperation between the two countries
 develops in such spheres as oil - industry, the manufacture of oil
 extraction equipment, communication and agriculture.
   according to the minister's words, the forthcoming visit of
 azerbaijani prime-minister, panah huseynov, to great britain on may
 23-24, is very important. it is expected, that the visit will
 help, to solve the problems of opening in azerbaijan the branch
 offices of some british banks, insurance firms; to conclude
 contracts on the sphere of manufacture of agricultural equipment; on
 building in azerbaijan off shore oil platforms, and reconstruction of the
 entire communication system of azerbaijan.
    in garayev's view, the expansion of the cooperation with great britain
 will have a great political meaning for azerbaijan.
    according to politicians and reviewers in baku, at present, great
 britain as an european state is close to azerbaijan. the continuation of
 the economic and political cooperation of the two states is foreseen. --o--
 
            \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ 
              t u r a n    n e w s    a g e n c y
                      baku - azerbaijan      
                 phone: (8922) 66-7977  66-7833
                     fax: (8922) 66-2009
                    telex: 142168 meta su
            \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
                   
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 