
 in article <1993may24.134245.1@vax1.bham.ac.uk> ivrissimtzis@vax1.bham.ac.uk writes:
 
 >turkey may be "more" underdeveloped if you wish, but that was not the issue.
 
 funny you should mention. that's the whole point 'paliks' invariably miss. 
 
 
 source: 'united nations, human development report,' 1990.
 
 annual output per person in dollars adjusted to purchasing power
 parity: turkiye, greece and chile are in the same category. that
 is, $3,000 - $5,999. 
 
 
 source: 'international economics: theory and policy' by paul r.
         krugman and maurice obstfeld, harper collins publishers,
         1991, (second edition).
 
 in terms of 'annual output per person in dollars adjusted to 
 purchasing power parity,' greece is in the same category with 
 turkiye.
 
 
 indeed, greek governments have enormous problems to tackle. the 
 economy is in shambles, corruption is rampant, air pollution is 
 in outrageous dimensions, state-sponsored terrorism is the name 
 of the game and infrastructure is decaying. another insightful 
 article in the new york times (sunday, april 7) exposes the dirty 
 linen of greece, and describes her as the pariah of the european 
 community. the article reports that ''...with un-european antics,
 greece uses the community as a cash register. she squanders, and
 at times even steals the european tax payers' money for political  
 featherbedding at home. the principal members of the community
 admit that it was a mistake to accept greece to the european
 community.'' this affirmation is testimony to the fact that
 notwithstanding her geographic location, greece is un-european
 in mentality and attitude. 
 
 indeed, during the last 12 years, turkiye registered a great 
 success with regard to economic restructuring. a sound economy, 
 ready to be integrated to the world economies, has emerged, 
 succeeding to the faltering one, witnessed in the '70s.
 
 just 12 years ago, greece used to export double as much as 
 turkiye did. now inversely, turkiye's overall exports exceed 
 by far that of greece. as far as the tourism incomes are 
 concerned, we are witnessing the same phenomenon.
 
 the governments in turkiye have put a particular emphasis on 
 the infrastructure investments (rather than investing in
 world terrorist organizations), thereby solving this issue 
 completely. indeed, in the '70s, it was out of the question 
 to conduct a telephone call from eastern anatolia to the west. 
 nowadays, this is not the case at all, and in a far remote 
 town, even in a village you may have, at any time, a long-distance 
 call to any given country.
 
 however, the same could not be applied to greece. in fact,
 it is not so easy in athens to have a trunk call to germany
 round the clock. and if you happen to be in the greek islands,
 then your chance will be pretty slim. therefore, it would not
 be an exaggeration to argue that turkiye is far ahead of 
 greece in regard to telecommunication facilities. greece,
 by virtue of its full membership, has enjoyed all advantages
 of the ec, obtaining huge grants and extensive subsidies. 
 turkiye, having no access at all to similar financial supports,
 has nevertheless managed to create a better economy which 
 enabled it to produce consecutive current accounts surplus
 over the last two years. as such, turkiye deserves to be the
 only country in its region having permanent current accounts
 surplus. 
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 