
 in article <jtsilla.93may24095805@sparc10a.ccs.northeastern.edu> jtsilla@sparc10a.ccs.northeastern.edu (james tsillas) writes:
 
 >i got some e-mail on this topic and decided to do some more reading. i
 >thought it would be nice to share my response with everyone:
 
 how about the following scholarly source?
 
 source: pierre oberling, "the road to bellapais: the turkish cypriot
         exodus to northern cyprus", social science monographs, boulder,
         1982, isbn 88033-000-7.
 
 >well, according to a book by c.m.woodhouse i've read it looks like the
 >situation was much more complicated than either of us suggest. needless
 >to say nationalism on both the greek and turkish side was strong and
 >began in april of '74 with confrontations over the agean (as usual)
 >between the government in turkey and the ioannidis junta.
 >in july 15 an assasination attempt against makarios (then president of
 >cyprus) plotted by ioannidis, ruling dictator in greece, fails and
 >makarios flees to england. the journalist nicos sampson takes over in a
 >coup led by the greek officers in the cyprus national guard. turkish
 >forces which had been mobilized in anticipation begin landing on the
 >north shore of the island on 20th of july. this caused the welcomed
 >collapse of the dictatorship the 24th with mr. karamanlis returning from
 
 well, i am forced to disagree with you. the greeks started massacring 
 the turkish population on cyprus in 1974. in 1974, turkiye stepped into 
 cyprus to preserve the lives of the turkish population there. this is 
 nothing but a simple historical fact. unfortunately, the intervention 
 was too late at least for some of the victims. mass graves containing 
 numerous bodies of women and children already showed what fate had been 
 planned for a peaceful minority.
 
 the people of turkiye know quite well that greece and the greek cypriots 
 will never abandon the idea of hellenizing cyprus and will remain 
 eternally hopeful of uniting it with greece, someday, whatever the 
 cost to the parties involved. the history speaks for itself. greece was 
 the sole perpetrator of invasion on that island when it sent its troops 
 on july 15, 1974 in an attempt to topple the legitimate government of 
 archibishop makarios.
 
 the release of nikos sampson, a member of eoka [national organization
 of cypriot fighters] and a convicted terrorist, shows that the
 'enosis' mentality continues to survive in greece. one should not
 forget that sampson dedicated his life to annihilating the turks
 in cyprus, committed murder to achieve this goal, and tried to
 destroy the island's independence by annexing it to greece. of
 course, the greek governments will have to bear the consequences 
 for this irresponsible conduct.
 
 turkish cypriots are simply seeking guarantees that will preclude a
 repeat performance by the fanatical cadres of the greeks' eoka. if 
 such assurances are not perfectly implemented, there is every reason 
 to expect that the local greeks will be misguided enough to perpetrate 
 their past mistakes. on such an occasion, the turkish side may not find 
 it satisfactory to act with reluctance to go any further than before, 
 for it is unacceptable to remain always defensive against cyclical 
 vicious attacks. therefore it would be better to have a true federation
 of two separate sections living in obligatory peace, rather than another 
 armed confrontation that would be started by the greeks and obligatorily 
 but decisively terminated by the turks. 
 
 the present greek government is trying to tyrannize the turkish population 
 in western thrace by forbidding it its ethnic and religious rights, which 
 were established through international treaties. one might be better
 advised to remember that misadventures against turkiye do not serve 
 greece well.
 
 an offer of membership in the european common market as bait for concessions 
 that may doom the turks in cyprus to extinction is not a viable course for 
 greece or her friends. neither turkish lives nor turkish honor has been 
 placed on the bidding block to be sold for commercial gain.
 
 
 serdar argic
 
                            'we closed the roads and mountain passes that 
                             might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
                             and then proceeded in the work of extermination.'
                                                   (ohanus appressian - 1919)
                            'in soviet armenia today there no longer exists 
                             a single turkish soul.' (sahak melkonian - 1920)
 
 
 