ANDY Murray's bride-to-be might have already found something new for her special day -- after a Scots bridal shop sent her a beautiful garter.
Lesley Anderson, 52, sent the crystal-covered &quot;one of a kind&quot; accessory to Kim Sears six weeks ago and received kind a thank you note which said it was &quot;gorgeous&quot;.
The ivory-coloured piece is hand-embroidered on the inside with the couple's initials and wedding date and was designed by Nicola Ure from K C Bridal specialists in Falkirk.

Lesley, who owns the Point Nouveau Bridal shop in Dunblane, sent it with a hand-made card featuring a picture of Kim and Andy on the front.
The image which accompanied the garter and letter from Lesley, was hand drawn by local artist Lorna Brown.
It shows Andy in his kilt holding a tennis racket and Kim in her dress along with their Border Terriers.
Kim's reply to the gifts read: &quot;Dear Lesley and all at Point Nouveau Bridal.

&quot;Just a little note to say a huge thank you for the gorgeous gift Nicola made for me.
&quot;It was very kind of you and I hadn't found a garter yet so thanks ever so much.
&quot;Also, that card of Lorna Brown's is absolutely fabulous! It really made us giggle, especially our two little dogs in the background!
&quot;We are really excited for our big day in a month's time and are happy to be celebrating our wedding in Dunblane.
&quot;Thank you again for your thoughtfulness and generosity. Best wishes, Kim Sears X.&quot;

Lesley is close friends with Andy's grandmother, Shirley Erskine, 83 and gave the garter and card to her to take to Kim.
She said: &quot;Out of the blue we got this beautiful card. To be honest we never ever thought we would hear very much at all so when we got this beautiful card we were chuffed to bits.
&quot;I was absolutely delighted. This was such a personal thing. We were really, really chuffed.
&quot;About two months ago we thought we would love to gift Kim with something from Point Nouveau Bridal in Dunblane because quite often with celebrity weddings, they don't come to normal high street shops.
&quot;So we just thought, 'what can we do to send her something from us?'.
&quot;We know Mrs Erskine quite well -- that's Andy's grandma. And we gave it to her to take up to Kim.&quot;
The shop on Dunblane High street is just 200 yards from the cathedral door where Andy and Kim will enter on Saturday and Lesley said she will have a &quot;bird's eye view&quot; of what unfolds on the big day.
Lesley has met all of Andy's family after they came into her store five years ago and also when Andy returned after winning Wimbledon, when he shook hands with all the shop owners on the Dunblane High street.
She added: &quot;The garter is also a thank you from us for all their support for Dunblane as well.
&quot;We can't thank them enough for what they have done for Dunblane. They have no idea just how much they have generated for the village, they really don't.
&quot;Our shop is 10 years old this year. We moved here just over a year ago and we are phenomenally busy. It was the best thing I ever did.
&quot;I don't have an invite. We are not that close.
&quot;We'll be able to see from here which is just as good. I can't wait to see the dress.&quot;
 Try your hand at our showbiz quiz 

