EVERYONE has his or her own very personal way of getting fit.
Some quite like going for a run. I do not. It makes me feel like I’m about to have some sort of panic-attack combined with the sensation of being boiled like an over-ripe tomato in summer. Running is not my thing.
 I have also tried the gym several times. The sweaty box of human hormones filling a small air-conditioned room with panting show-offs is neither what I aspire to nor do I wish to be a part of it. The fact that my gym is slowly filling with children young enough to be watching “The Breakfast Club” ironically rather than nostalgically just makes me wants to vomit, really. 
So I had to acquire a way of getting myself fit without feeling like I wanted to throw up or slap a rotten fish in a teenager’s face.
Cycling is fun, although it does get remarkably less fun when faced with the numerous idiotic drivers parking on cycle lanes and opening doors whenever you peddle past. As a driver I never really understood the rage of cyclists. As a cyclist, I am genuinely proud of my self-restraint from slashing the tires of every soft-top, four-wheel drive monstrosity in this city.
For fitness - and my own sanity - something else perhaps.
I found a Zumba class local to me. It’s fabulous.
With a range of music from Latin American, hip hop and even Bollywood, this class is a whole lot of fun - and hysterically funny to boot.
 The clientele of this class are a real mix. From the clammy west end ladies who struggle with the concept of shaking one's hips as well as waving ones hands in the air like you just don’t care, to the hard-core fitness fanatics who will rather resentfully shake that booty like there’s no tomorrow, it hosts a lovely variety of characters who are there for a laugh as well as the healthy side of things. 
My brother, a regular to the class, can neither keep a rhythm nor shake a tail feather but my goodness can he move in many directions at the one time. I myself can hardly boast a great reputation when it comes to salsa dancing. I look like a deranged monkey with an itchy backside.
I possess, however, a real fondness for the little church hall we all meet in on Mondays and Wednesdays. It represents a community rather than a plinth on which to show one’s muscular achievements. The music is great, the instructor is lovely, and on a Wednesday she brings along home baking.
I would say this is a definite win where fitness is concerned.
