WHEN teenager Alex Tait  carried her books to school, she couldn’t understand how her bag seemed so much heavier than her classmates’ bags.
She also found sitting on school chairs more uncomfortable than any of her friends.
And she also struggled to understand how she was much less agile at PE.
But it was during a school gym lesson that a friend noticed what she suspected was a curve in Alex’s spine. Tests revealed the active student had scoliosis and doctors broke the news she would need major surgery to stop her back from twisting  any further out of shape.
Now, just eight months on from the operation, Alex is not only walking tall, she is set to take part in the Great Women’s 10km to raise money for the hospital that helped her, before heading to America for a summer  of teaching sport to children.
Alex, 18, of Murrayfield, Edinburgh, said: “When I look back now, I can’t believe I didn’t realise earlier that something was wrong. I had suffered back ache for quite a while and carrying my schoolbag always made my back sore, as did sitting on chairs with no back.But I just got used to the pain. I didn’t want to moan all the time, so didn’t mention it.
“Then in gym one day, my friend Ali said she thought one side of my back was higher than the other. Her older sister had suffered from scoliosis, so she knew what she was talking about.
“I went home and showed my mum, who  is a nurse. When she looked, she said my friend was right.”
Alex attended the Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Edinburgh where medics found three curves in her spine, with the worst of the twists bordering on severe.
She was told she needed spinal fusion surgery, where surgeons would join together bones in her  back to straighten her spine. She was warned there was a danger the operation could leave her paralysed.
 

But she said the benefits of the surgery outweighed the risk.
She said: “When I first attended the hospital, I was told the most serious of the curves was twisting at an angle of 47 degrees – when normal is around 10 degrees. At first, the doctors said they would monitor what was happening and the first few times I went for appointments, my back didn’t change much.
“But then in just a few months, my back started to  get much sorer and an X-ray showed the curve had changed to 54 degrees.”
As her condition worsened, Alex started to feel self-conscious about her appearance.
She said: “I’m not someone who normally worries too much about what other people think but I had bought a beautiful dress with a low back for a party at school and when the day of the dance came, I didn’t wear it.
“Everyone knew I needed an operation to straighten my back and I just felt everyone would be looking so I wore something else.”
Alex remembers little about the day she had the five-hour surgery but she does remember being worried that she couldn’t feel any pain when she woke up.
 

She said: “I tried not to think about what could go wrong. When I woke up, I was a bit worried that my back felt just really numb – until I knew that was normal.
“I was anxious about getting up and walking in case I couldn’t. But the physios get you up as quickly as possible and by day five, they had me going up and down stairs.”
The exercises she was given to help her recover from the surgery introduced Alex to a whole new world of fitness. She started to set herself fitness targets, including signing up to the run the Great Women’s 10km.
And now, just eight months after the surgery, she has never felt fitter.
Alex, who deferred starting university for a year because of the surgery, said: “I’m feeling great –  and loving doing everything from swimming, to running, to going to the gym. I don’t think I realised how much having a sore back affected me until it was fixed.
“I remember doing things like my Duke of Edinburgh hike and how difficult it was.
“As the operation got nearer, I even had to have a special chair as sitting in an ordinary chair was too uncomfortable. But now I’m looking forward to doing the Great Women’s 10k and then I’m heading to California to work for Camp America as a lifeguard and kids’ tennis coach.
“I’m grateful to my friend who spotted the curve on my spine and to all the staff at the Sick Children’s Hospital in Edinburgh who did such an amazing job.
“I’m running the Great Women’s 10k with my friend, mum and sister to raise money  for the Sick Kids Friends Foundation as a thank you.”
The Morrisons Great Women’s 10k takes place in Glasgow on Sunday 17 May. Entry is open at www.greatrun.org/womens10k
To donate to Alex’s charity page visit http://uk.virginmoneygiving.com/team/TheKardasheruns

