TWENTY city bowling clubs are to push further interest in the sport inspired by the Commonwealth Games last summer.
Bowls Scotland’s “Try Bowls” campaign will see a total of 182 clubs across the country take part in the summer campaign, dozens more than last year. Many already reported an increase in membership after the successful games.
Many of the clubs will be hosting open days starting this weekend and area clubs taking part are: Arthurlie, Bearsden, Bishopton, Brookfield, Caledonia, Eaglesham, Foxley, Hyndland, J G Fleming, Kelvindale, Kirkhill, Maryhill, Milngavie, Mosspark, Pollokshaws, Queen's Park Bowling &amp; Tennis, Stamperland, Shettleston, Willowbank and Woodend Bowling &amp; Tennis.
Andy Shea, president of Foxley Bowling Club in the east end, said: “Try Bowls seems the ideal start to what for us is a season-long approach to placing Foxley at the heart of our local community.
“We want that community to Try Bowls and engage with Foxley and in doing so see that bowls is one of the most inclusive sports out there. Ultimately we want to see the club and community working in partnership.”
Honorary match secretary at Mosspark Bowling Club, David McInnes, said they wanted to get new members signed up to try their two greens, but also show the enjoyable a community spirit.
He said: “We have heard several times recently from local visitors that they were unaware of the facilities our club had and what we had to offer to the local community. We therefore see this as an opportunity for our neighbours to come along and see the facilities that are on their doorstep.
“We would be delighted to show people in our community how much fun playing bowls is. We're sure there are many of them who would love to come along in the summer afternoons or evenings to pass the time on our greens, and if they prove to be good bowlers, to go the next step and compete for our club.
“Our greens are of superb quality and give keen bowlers an excellent experience. We have a members' bar and a large lounge which means that members can use the club for private functions, and invite their friends and families to our club dances and cabaret evenings.”
 Visit www.trybowls.com for more information. 
