WHEN Paul McGowan emerged from Airdrie Sheriff Court this week, the first person who spoke to him was his dad.
The message to his son was unequivocal. “If you don’t learn now, you never will.”
Never has a nail been hit so firmly on the head.
In fact, with words like that from a parent, it makes you wonder how the Dundee player got himself into such bother in the first place.
 McGowan escaped a jail term by the skin of his teeth after being convicted of police assault for the third time . There is little point in arguing that he didn’t deserve to do time. 
After all, anyone who knows McGowan will tell you that even he had accepted in his own mind that he’d be locked behind bars for at least three months.
Make no mistake, he should have gone down.
There is absolutely no  condoning what he did and the fact he failed to take heed on the previous two occasions is almost unforgivable.
 Certainly, something is skewed in our justice system when a bigoted Rangers fan is still banged up for singing the Billy Boys in the street back in February, yet McGowan is a free man. 
But, whether you like it or not, a judge decided to spare him and his career on the basis that  somewhere, deep inside that 27-year-old body of his, there is a decent human being.
A guy who has an  exemplary behavioural record at his place of work. Who is a doting dad to his only son. And, to those  closest to him, doesn’t have a bad bone in his body. I know it’s hard to believe when you look at McGowan’s convictions and off-field antics. But it’s true.
Plenty of folk will already  have written him off as an uncontrollable ned who can’t handle his drink. That general perception of him – getting  bevvied at house parties before verbally and physically attacking cops – isn’t a healthy one.
And he’s stuck with it.
But it’s not the full story.
McGowan, like so many other flawed Scottish footballers of the past, is a victim of his own surroundings. He’s an Airdrie boy through and through.
His lawyer revealed the Dens Park midfielder, who was placed on a 16-week tagging order, had a gambling problem.
That might well be the case. But to anyone on the outside, alcohol is his biggest demon.
He becomes a different  person when he’s had a drink.
McGowan is still immersed in the same ‘street culture’ he was used to at 16 or 17.
He finds it impossible to drag himself away from the housing scheme pals he grew up with.
It’s incredible that what would become repeat offending only began when he was 23 years old.
You’d think if he was going to get caught up in these type of incidents, they would have occurred when he was 18 or 19.
Is that a damning indictment on McGowan’s immaturity?
Or is it that, while he’s still hanging around the same  trouble-strewn streets he’s always done, disorder has just continued to follow him around? I would suggest the latter.
 Charlie Miller had the same issue while at Rangers back in the 90s. Like McGowan, he was blessed with an ability few  Scottish players have. 
But, by his own admission, he failed to make the most of it because he couldn’t leave his ‘pals’ behind.
Miller isn’t a bad person, far from it. But, unfortunately, some of the company he kept around that time contributed to him getting into hot water.
McGowan is the very same. In November, when he was charged, the Dens Park club arranged for him to move into a flat in Dundee.
It was a credible attempt to help their playmaker, a bid to take him away from what THEY believe are the problems and temptations around him.
Yet here we are, five months on, and the bed in that flat still hasn’t been slept in. He promised the club he’d flit to Tayside but has never quite got round to it. It’s as if he’s incapable – unless taken by the hand – of turning his back on the past.
And there’s something sad about that. We all know McGowan isn’t a daft teenager. He should be taking those  steps himself.
But if he does have demons and, mentally, isn’t in the right place, someone from his club should be chaperoning him on the next train north.
Maybe, just maybe, it could make the difference. McGowan says this is it, the turning point in his life. He’s absolutely certain he’ll never step out of line again. The truth is, he doesn’t know. None of us does.
But, just recently, McGowan has changed. Whether it was the fear of jail, not seeing his boy, not playing football, whatever, those close to him say he’s been different.
Every Thursday, his regular car pool Dundee team-mates, have dropped him off at the PFA offices in Glasgow after training to attend counselling sessions.
He doesn’t have to go. Just like moving to Dundee, he could quite easily have put it off or half-heartedly tried to attend.
But no, he’s there of his own accord. And he deserves a shred of credit for that, at least.
It’s a long road back for him, in terms of convincing people – myself included – that he’s learned his lesson. But for his, and Dundee’s sake, we should all hope that he’s taken his old man’s words to heart.

