I HAVE been out on the campaign trail this week seeking support for Labour at the General Election on May 7.
With the opinion polls so close it looks increasingly likely that Glasgow and Scotland can decide the outcome of this election.
We can choose to protest about the Tories with a vote for the SNP or any number of other parties.
Or we can vote Labour and actually kick the Tories out and unlock the change we all want to see.
Only Labour is big and strong enough across the UK to beat the Tories. And any seat Labour loses in Scotland will make it more likely that the Tories will emerge as the largest party across Britain and so cling-on to power.
That would be a disaster for working families and public services throughout Scotland and the whole of Britain.
No wonder David Cameron constantly talks about the SNP. He knows that he relies on them to beat Labour in Scotland. Every SNP MP that is elected in May will be cheered to the rafters by the Tories.
In contrast, I am really proud of what Labour will do if we win the election in just two weeks time. And I was inspired by powerful speeches, led by Jim Murphy, at the Scottish Labour manifesto launch on Friday.
Labour's 10 key pledges are:
Glasgow and the rest of the country is desperate for change from the failed and dismal austerity policies of the same old nasty Tory government.
Labour is offering the change we need. On May 7 we can stand with working families and fellow progressives in our great sister-cities in the north of England, the Midlands, the valleys of Wales, and inner London and give the Tories their P45.
By sticking together we can elect a Labour government with strong, radical and fully-costed, real-Labour policies.
The SNP on the other hand want to abolish the Barnett formula by supporting full fiscal autonomy, even though to do so would cost every man, woman and child in Scotland more than &pound;1,400.
And having said they would respect the outcome of the once-in-a-generation referendum, the SNP is now refusing to rule out another referendum. That’s the last thing we need.
While the SNP obsess with what is in their narrow party interests, Labour will get on with the hard work of redistributing from the wealthy few and delivering fairness and social justice for the many.
The only way to get a Labour government is to vote Labour on May 7. I will do so with pride. I hope you do too.
 

I WAS very saddened to hear on Sunday that Tom McCabe, former council leader, MSP and Labour finance minister had died.
Tom had a long and illustrious career in the Labour movement. He touched thousands of lives as a deeply caring, hard-working and progressive local elected politician and senior member of South Lanarkshire Council and the previous Labour-led Scottish Executive.
I last saw Tom a week before he died. I will treasure our final conversation.
The thoughts and prayers of the Labour Group on Glasgow City Council and his many colleagues and friends are with Tom's beloved wife, family and closest friends.
He will be remembered with affection and respect across the political spectrum. And he will be sadly missed.
