ANY family could find themselves dependent on a food bank.
Even those of us in the steadiest of jobs are just one or two missed paychecks away from the breadline.
All it would take is a stroke of bad luck – a redundancy or unexpected bout of ill health – and the family finances could soon look perilous.
It is, of course, a disgrace that charity food banks such as those provided by the Trussell Trust are required in Scotland in 2015.
In a country this rich, the state should provide a welfare safety net sufficient to ensure nobody goes hungry.
Unfortunately, that is just not the case.
Eyewatering cuts to benefit levels in the last five years, combined with a brutal sanctions system, mean more Scots now fall through the cracks than ever before.
That is why the  today launches a campaign to promote the work of Trussell Trust food banks across the country.
It is called Feed a Family for a Fiver and means you can help with just one simple text message.
We aim to highlight the plight of the hundreds of hard-pressed families forced to visit them every day.
Families like that of mum-of-four Sandra Cheyne, who was left on the poverty line after being forced to quit her job when she took maternity leave.
When her scaffolder partner sustained a back injury, the family were left without enough money for food. Now their 16-week-old son is being fed using milk tokens.
These are not scroungers or shirkers. They are people who want to work but have fallen on hard times.
They deserve our help.
Each time the  exposes another aspect of the crisis gripping the NHS the Scottish Government give us the same old excuses.
The story is not typical of the health service as a whole, they’ll say, or work is already under way to improve this particular aspect.
Today’s first-hand testimony from GP Dr Claire Scott shows that there are ingrained problems throughout the system.
This is no reflection on the hardworking staff in hospital, GP practices and other health facilities up and down the country.
They do an admirable job in the most challenging of circumstances.
But there is now no denying the reality of the NHS in Scotland. Doctors are stretched to the limit. The quality of care is suffering.
Only politicians truly committed to improving the NHS – and investing the necessary funds to do so – can fix it.
Scottish football can often be predictable – it’s been 30 years since anyone other than Celtic or Rangers won the top league.
But at the weekend it showed it still has the power to throw up the odd surprise, when Inverness Caley Thistle and Falkirk knocked more fancied opponents out of the Scottish Cup.
While Celtic and Hibs fans will be gutted their sides won’t be at May’s final, the rest of us can salute two teams who showed the romance of the cup is alive and well.
 
