A CANDLE memorial at a university was among a flood of tributes to masters' student Karen Buckley.
 As the discovery of her body on farmland near Glasgow was confirmed , senior Irish Government figures and those who knew the nurse sent heartfelt messages of sympathy to her family. 
Tanaiste Joan Burton, Ireland's deputy prime minister, told parliament her thoughts were with the grieving parents John and Marian and the dead woman's three brothers Brendan, Kieran, and Damian.
&quot;It's every parent's nightmare what has unfolded in recent days,&quot; she said.
As messages poured in, the University of Limerick held a mass in her memory and created a small memorial with a photograph and candle at the reception to the health sciences building where Ms Buckley's nursing studies began.
A spokeswoman for the university said the college community, in particular the department of nursing and midwifery, was deeply saddened by her disappearance and the subsequent tragic reports.
&quot;Karen was a very valued member of the UL community as well as the wider nursing and medical communities in Limerick, having spent time working in both the University Hospital Limerick and the University Maternity Hospital,&quot; she said.
&quot;The thoughts of the entire UL community are with her parents and family and her wide circle of friends as well as her UL classmates and medical colleagues.&quot;
Prayers were also offered at services near Ms Buckley's home in Mourneabbey, north Cork, and the nearby town of Mallow.
Her immediate family were being supported by Irish consular staff in Scotland during the investigation and amid news that the missing woman's body had been discovered.
Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan said: &quot;All of our thoughts and prayers are with Karen's parents, John and Marian, and with all of her family and friends at this tragic time.&quot;
He also expressed appreciation for the efforts of the Scottish authorities, especially Police Scotland in Glasgow, in the investigation.
Northern Ireland's Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said the discovery was heartbreakingly sad.
Father Joe O'Keeffe, parish priest of Mourneabbey, described the deep sense of despair in the area where the family live.
&quot;All we can say to the parishioners is to pray for the Buckley family and to continue to keep them in our prayers,&quot; he said.
&quot;We are there for the family in solidarity with them and hopefully continue to be in the days that lie ahead. I suppose we were living in hope of better news.&quot;
The Irish Nurses' and Midwives' Organisation also offered sympathy to Ms Buckley's family, friends and nursing colleagues on behalf of all its members.
&quot;Her family and her former colleagues in University Hospital Limerick are in our thoughts and prayers at this very difficult time,&quot; the union said.
Sean Sherlock, a junior minister from the Cork area, added: &quot;My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Karen in Mourneabbey, Cork, Glasgow and throughout the world.&quot;
St Mary's Secondary School in Mallow, Co Cork, where Ms Buckley had studied before going to college, also offered family and friends their sympathies.

