AN ex-pat Scottish gran has been hacked to death in South Africa.
Sandra Malcolm, originally from Monifieth, was found by her grandson after being murdered by an intruder in her home in Cape Town.
Police are now hunting those behind the killing of the 74-year-old, who was planning to visit Dundee in May to see her family.
Nephew Colin Chalmers told the Dundee Courier that the family had been left “distraught” by the murder.
He said: “My parents, her sister and brother-in-law are absolutely in bits.
“I’m absolutely gobsmacked, I’ve never had to deal with anything like this before. It’s completely shocking.”
South African news networks reported her body was mutilated, although police would not confirm this.
Mrs Malcolm lived in South Africa for 35 years and is survived by two daughters, three grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
One neighbour, who asked not to be identified, told reporters they were horrified by the murder. 
 

He said: &quot;This is a quiet community, this is shocking, I still cannot believe it. 
&quot;I saw her on Saturday afternoon last. She had some friends over.&quot;
He described his murdered neighbour as &quot;friendly&quot;, adding: &quot;It's so strange because we didn't hear anything, no struggle or a gunshot. 
&quot;She wouldn't let anyone get to her. It's so strange because we didn't hear anything, no struggle or a gunshot. 
&quot;The grandson, we understand, found her after climbing through the bathroom window. &quot;I left for church before 10am and I walked past her flat and I didn't hear or see anything. 
&quot;When I came back from church I saw the police vans and they said she had been murdered.  The family is so shaken they are not in a state to speak.&quot; 
Details are still emerging of how the pensioner came to be found at her flat. 
South African news networks reported that neighbours said Sandra was last seen with friends on Saturday afternoon. 
The city's Daily Voice newspaper said residents claimed they did not hear any gunshots or sounds of struggle during the night or on Sunday morning. 
It is believed her grandson climbed through a bathroom window to investigate after she failed to answer her door on Sunday morning. 
Police in Cape Town - described by South African media as &quot;one of the murder capitals of the world - declined to comment on the circumstances of Sandra's death. 
More news from around the world

