A TERRIFIED pensioner yesterday said she has to wear a helmet to leave her home because her street is being terrorised by seagulls.
Margaret Robertson, 70, puts on the plastic hard hat and carries a four-foot stick to fend off the swooping birds.
The mum-of-three, who sells cookery goods door to door, said residents are too scared to walk down the road.
Some families have resorted to using taxis to take them 300 yards to the main road to avoid the birds’ nest.
 Margaret, of Bearsden, near Glasgow , said: “We feel terrorised. The only thing that keeps them away is waving a big stick at them. 
“Children have to run by the house where the birds nest.
“I have to wear a helmet when I make my deliveries. There needs to be a cull.”
Margaret said the problem began three years ago when a family of seagulls nested in a roof near her home.
 After a spate of attacks, the residents called East Dunbartonshire Council , but nothing was done to help. 
The attacks grew worse until residents installed plastic spikes on the roof.
But the birds keep returning and have even been spotted attacking large wild animals such as foxes.
Margaret said: “If you’re not carrying an umbrella or anything above your head they swoop on you until you leave.
“They seem to be teaching their chicks to attack us because they are coming back year after year and each time they are more vicious.
“I’ve been delivering Betterware goods to those houses for 10 years and I have never seen anything like it.”
Victor Budas, of Burnbrae Residents Association, added: “This has been a serious problem for a number of years and we’d encourage people not to put food out for the seagulls.
 “Once seagulls establish a nest they will return year after year and once their eggs hatch they become very aggressive to protect their young. 
“The postwoman has experienced so many problems she was told she didn’t have to deliver in some streets.”
East Dunbartonshire Council said they didn’t provide a service to control seagulls, adding: “They are protected in terms of The Wildlife and Countryside Act, 1981.”

