 The Sunday Mail’s Marion Scott has been named Scotland’s Journalist of the Year at the country’s prestigious press awards. 
Marion was also named Reporter of the Year in Glasgow on Thursday after judges hailed her passionate, campaigning journalism.
 She has relentlessly battled to give a voice to victims of injustice since joining the Mail in 1979, most recently in her powerful campaigning reports highlighting the plight of women whose lives have been ruined by mesh surgery. 
She has previously won Campaign of the Year for highlighting the systematic abuse of children in church- run residential schools, and has twice been nominated for the prestigious Hugh Cudlipp award for campaigning on miscarriages of justice and child abuse.
 Her winning stories this year included revealing how the government would suspend mesh implants until after a safety review prompted by her campaign; new revelations surrounding the decision to drop a rape charge against footballer David Goodwillie; and the first interview with radio presenter Suzie McGuire after her husband was convicted of beating her. Labour MSP Neil Findlay, who has been a vocal backer of the mesh campaign, hailed Marion’s awards in a motion at Holryood and praised the high quality of her work and “groundbreaking campaigning”. 
 Her awards came on a night when the Mail’s journalism was commended in a number of categories at the 36th Scottish Press Awards. Colleague Norman Silvester was runner up to Marion in Reporter of the Year for stories revealing Police Scotland had secretly been sending armed officers on routine patrol. 
 That was one of our two stories in the running for Scoop of the Year, along with political editor Mark Aitken’s reports from the World Cup slave camps of Qatar. Mark was also shortlisted as Political Journalist of the Year. 
We were also shortlisted in the Front Page category for It’s Time, which ran ahead of the referendum.
 Our sister paper the  also won major awards at the Scottish Press Awards. 
They were named Newspaper of they Year after picking up a series of prizes on the night including Scoop of the Year and best Front Page for The Vow.
 Their political editor David Clegg picked up Political Journalist of the Year while Keith Jackson picked up Sport News Writer for the third year running. 
 Meanwhile, Katrina Tweedie collected the Innovation award for Scotland Now, our digital platform launched last May to reach people around the world with an interest in Scots culture. 
The Daily Mail also had a big night winning eight awards while Drew Cochrane, who edited the Largs and Millport Weekly News for 40 years, was honoured with a lifetime achievement award.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

