A MAN has appeared in court charged with the murder of Irish student Karen Buckley.
Alexander Pacteau, 21, was also charged with attempting to defeat the ends of justice when he appeared in private before Glasgow Sheriff Court.
He made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody.
Miss Buckley, 24, went missing following a night out at the Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow's West End on Saturday.
Her body was found by police at a farm to the north of the city.
A candlelit vigil will be held in Glasgow's George Square from 5pm today in memory of Karen, who was from Cork in Ireland.

A Crown Office spokesman said: &quot;Alexander Pacteau, 21, from Glasgow, appeared at Glasgow Sheriff Court today charged with the murder of Karen Buckley, and with attempting to defeat the ends of justice.
&quot;He made no plea or declaration and was remanded in custody.
&quot;It is anticipated he will appear again next week for a further hearing.&quot;
Friends of Miss Buckley raised the alarm on Sunday morning when she failed to return from a night out at The Sanctuary nightclub in the west end of Glasgow.
The search led police to Dawsholm Park, where Miss Buckley's handbag was found on Tuesday, and a property in the city's Dorchester Avenue, before the farm where the discovery was made.
Ms Buckley moved to Scotland in February and was a first-year occupational therapy student at Glasgow Caledonian University.
Her family, who travelled to Scotland on Tuesday, have said they are &quot;absolutely heartbroken&quot;.
Her father, John Buckley, 62, said she was an outgoing girl who &quot;thoroughly enjoyed life&quot;.
He released a statement through Police Scotland yesterday which read: &quot;Marian and I, together with our sons Brendan, Kieran, and Damian, are absolutely heartbroken.
&quot;Karen was our only daughter, cherished by her family and loved by her friends.
&quot;She was an outgoing girl who travelled the world, where she met lots of people and thoroughly enjoyed her life.
&quot;We will miss her terribly.&quot;
Flowers, cards and pictures have been left at the entrance to the farm and at Glasgow Caledonian University in tribute to Miss Buckley.
A vigil will be held in George Square in Glasgow city centre this evening to show support for the family and friends of the student, who was from Cork in the Irish Republic.
People are being encouraged to bring flowers and candles to the event.
The outpouring of support for the family has also raised &pound;50,000 in an online drive organised by her former classmates at Limerick University.
The Go Fund Me page was set up to cover the family's travel and expenses while in Scotland and to support the upkeep of their farm in Cork. It raised more than 10 times the original target amount.
 
