 MASTER ice cream maker Owen Hazel has become a bit of a celebrity on the streets of Shanghai…and it’s all thanks to our Golden Cone Awards. 
 Since his cafe – Jannettas at St Andrews – was named best ice cream parlour in Scotland last year, Chinese tourists have been queuing up to be pictured with our gleaming trophy. 
So much so Owen is now a well-kent face on Asian social media.
He said: “They always want me in the picture too. It’s not usually my cup of tea to be the centre of attention and it’s a bit strange to feel that I might be a minor celebrity in Shanghai, but I do love it.”
Jannettas has been a St Andrews institution for more than 100 years but winning the coveted Golden Cone Award last year was like a sprinkle of magic on the South Street cafe and the Hazel family who own it.
Hundreds of their customers nominated the parlour in our contest – which is sponsored by Waverley Bakery – spelling out just why they love Jannettas.
And a visit from a judging panel was enough to make sure they had the competition licked.
Now the Golden Cone is up for grabs again as we launch this year’s search for the best cafe in the land.
But for Owen, the memory of learning they had won is still as fresh as this morning’s batch of vanilla.
He said: “I was sitting in my van in the car park of the Rufflets Hotel when the call came in. It was a really emotional moment.
“We’d been too scared to think that we might actually win.”
Owen’s wife Nicola, whose great grandad set up the business in 1908, said she can’t even do her shopping without people congratulating her.
She said: “I’d be walking round Morrisons and people would come up to tell me, well done.”
 

Jannetta’s has just reopened after a three-month refurbishment and the parlour is now much bigger with 54 different ice cream flavours to choose from.
Owen said: “We’ve become even more creative and we’ve been trying out savoury versions.
“So we’ve got wasabi ice cream, strawberry and balsamic vinegar and raspberry with red pepper.”
Since winning the Golden Cone, Jannettas has attracted some celebrity fans including footballer-turned-pundit Jamie Rednapp, who stopped by for a cone on his way to the Alfred Dunhill golf championship.
But it’s the reaction of ordinary customers that has meant the most to Owen and his team.
He said: “We’d just won the trophy when a customer came in to congratulate us. He was telling his wee boy that this was the best ice cream parlour in Scotland.
 “But the wee boy said: ‘No it isn’t. Aunty Betty’s in Stonehaven is much better’. I had to laugh. 
“I’m sure there’s a wee boy standing outside Aunt Betty’s saying Jannettas is the best. At least, I hope there is.”
Nadia Millar, the managing director of Golden Cone sponsor Waverley Bakery, can’t wait for this year’s competition.
She grew up in the business, helping her dad Alessandro run ice cream vans in Glasgow’s east end, but she now heads Scotland’s only maker of traditional cones and wafers.
Nadia said: “The award really can benefit those involved as can be clearly seen from the phenomenal success enjoyed by both our previous winners – Visocchi’s of Broughty Ferry in 2013 and Jannettas of St Andrews last year.
“This year’s awards will be bigger and better than before.”
 How to nominate: 
Tell us who you think should be in the running for the Golden Cone Awards 2015 and you could win your own ice cream van for a day.
Norminate the ice cream parlour you’ve come to love and you will be entered into a special prize draw.
After nominations close, one entry form will be selected at random and the winner will scoop a visit from an ice cream van or cart to an event of their choice.
 To nominate, go to www.sundaymail.co.uk/goldenconeawards or simply ask at your nominated parlour for an entry form. 
To vote by post, send your completed form to Golden Cone Awards, Innovations Department, One Central Quay, Glasgow G3 8DA.
