THE new Irn-Bru advert features an embarrassing train toilet incident and pays tribute to a legendary Billy Connolly joke.
It starts with the dreaded sliding doors opening to reveal a man on the throne in full view of two glamorous woman and a female drinks attendant.
The stunned bloke makes a dash for the button but trips up and ends up on all fours with his trousers round his ankles.
The deadpan drinks attendant hands him a can of Irn-Bru with the words: “Bottoms up, son.”
The stricken chap takes a drink and is transformed into a caricature of former Celtic star Frank McAvennie.
With newfound confidence he flashes a smile, winks and declares: “Ladies!”
 

But the mood changes when a man appears and asks the attendant: “Can you tell me where I can park my bike?”
The nod is a reference to Connolly's debut appearance on the BBC's Parkinson show in 1975.
Ignoring the advice of his manager the comedian told host Michael Parkinson a joke about a man who had murdered his wife and buried her bottom-up so he'd have somewhere to park his bike.
The gag went down a storm and Connolly later admitted: “That programme changed my entire life.”
The new advert ends with the toilet man, still on all fours, taking another drink of IRN-BRU before nodding behind him and telling the cyclist: “Crack on.”
 

The campaign continues the Irn-Bru Gets You Through theme, which takes a tongue-in-cheek look at how the soft drink can lift spirits and can help you see a lighter side of life.
Now in its fourth year previous ads including Steamy Windows, Blind Date and Fanny have generated 10 million online views.
IRN-BRU Head of Marketing, Adrian Troy, said: “Our Gets You Through campaign reflects the uplifting qualities of Irn-Bru and ‘Train’ shows that despite life’s ups and downs, we can always retain a sense of humour and get back on track!”
‘Train’, will be previewed on irn-bru.co.uk/train today and air on TV screens across the United Kingdom on Friday 17 April.
 

Try our quick news quiz below:

