A YOUNG boy was among at least three people killed yesterday as a boat packed with migrants ran aground in the Mediterranean.
The lad and two others drowned yards off the coast of the Greek island of Rhodes as 100 shivering survivors were helped to safety.
 Last night, Italy and Malta were scrambling to help two more stricken boats in the Med, with hundreds of African families trapped on board. 
Another official said six different rescue operations were under way.
 Teams are still searching for bodies and survivors after an estimated 900 people were feared drowned on Sunday off the Italian coast in one of the worst sea  disasters in decades. 
David Cameron said: “It has been a dark day for Europe.”
The PM and other EU chiefs are now under mounting pressure to reverse a controversial decision to withdraw support for search and rescue operations in the Med.
At least 1600 people have already drowned this year as they flee poverty-stricken and war-torn parts of Africa and the Middle East for a new life in Europe.
During the same period last year, the death toll was just 17.
 

Only a handful of survivors were found by Italian coastguards and fishermen who rushed to the scene of Sunday’s tragedy off the island of Lampedusa.
Vito Margiotta, captain of one of the fishing boats, said: “It was a scene from hell. We spotted people in the water but none of them were alive.
“It brought tears to our eyes to think of all those who ended up at the bottom of the sea.”
An Italian border official told how he found the body of one young boy floating in the water.

Francesco Gallo said: “I was praying that he would be alive, but a few moments later all hope died.
“I gathered him up in my arms as though he was my own son.
“I saw children’s shoes, clothing, backpacks floating in the water. But we didn’t find a single survivor – not one.”
Record numbers of people are trying to flee to Europe and more than 30,000 have made the crossing successfully in 2015.
Many come from war-torn Syria and Libya. Others hope to escape poverty and violence in Somalia, Senegal and Eritrea.
 

Heartless smugglers charge huge fees to traffic people across the Med in dangerously overcrowded and unsuitable vessels.
Many of the gangs are able to operate with impunity in Libya since the British-backed toppling of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi in 2011.
Last week another 400 migrants perished when their boat capsized not far off the Libyan coast.
Migrants are often locked in the ship’s hold, meaning little chance of survival if the vessel capsizes.
Cameron sought to deflect criticism of Europe’s failure to act and insisted the blame lay squarely with the smugglers.

He said: “The criminal human traffickers are the ones managing, promoting and selling this trade in human life.
“We are doing everything we can to try and stop them.
“You have got to deal with the instability in the countries concerned, you have got to go after the human traffickers and the criminals that are running this trade.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

