THE Voice winner Stevie McCrorie has landed his dream gig – the Sunday Mail Young Scot Awards.
Forget Wembley or the O2, the popular firefighter has revealed he has always wanted to perform at the Usher Hall.
Stevie’s dream will come true on April 30 when he closes our awards celebrating Scotland’s inspirational young people at the famous Edinburgh venue.
Pop sensation Conor Maynard and synthpop band Prides will also be performing at the glittering event, to be hosted by broadcaster Edith Bowman.

Dad-of-one Stevie said: “I am so excited about singing at the Young Scot Awards and being at the Usher Hall is the icing on the cake.
“I was at the venue in February, watching my Voice mentor Ricky Wilson perform with the Kaiser Chiefs, and was blown away by the atmosphere.

“I’ve always longed to sing live at the Usher Hall. I still can’t believe it’s actually going to happen and at such an incredible event.”
He added: “It’s a great way of giving something back to all the young people who voted for me on The Voice and I can’t wait to meet all the winners on the night.
 

“Scotland is full of amazing young people who are making a difference in their communities and I feel honoured to be part of celebrating their achievements.”
Stevie, 30, of Alva, Clackmannanshire, admits he has been on cloud nine since winning the hit BBC talent show two weeks ago.
He said: “It’s been non-stop since the final. I’ve been down in London recording, performing and doing media engagements.
“It’s still a bit surreal. I’ve been working hard all my life to get to this point and now it is here, I still have to pinch myself.
“I’m back home this week so I can spend some time with my family, especially my two-year-old daughter Bibi. But I’ll be song-writing and recording too.”
 

Stevie, whose single Lost Stars got to No1 in the Scottish charts has taken unpaid leave from his job as a firefighter.
He has a meeting with his boss at Kirkcaldy fire station this week to discuss what he’ll do next.
He said: “The fire service have been great and my colleagues have supported me the whole way through the competition.
“I have a meeting this week to see where I go from here. I’m going to need some time off to pursue my musical career.
“I think my bosses are a bit stumped about what to do as this has never happened to one of their employees before.”

