IT cost almost &pound;900million to build, has its own team of robots and the window cleaners have to have a good head for heights.
This is the brave new world behind the doors of Scotland’s super-hospital, the massive Southern General University Hospital which is now ready to open its doors to patients.
Just days before the first appointments, the Sunday Mail has been given unique behind-the-scenes access as the finishing touches were being put in place.
 A total of 1631 acute and 256 paediatric beds are provided in the two new sites which mark the  formal end to the Victorian wards of the old Southern General and Yorkhill children’s hospital. 
One of the largest hospital complexes in Europe with an atrium big enough to house a 747 jet, it will have an astonishing 10,000 staff and patients on site when fully operational. For project director Alasdair Fernie, it’s been a real labour of love. He was born in the maternity ward of the old Southern General 43 years ago.
He said: “I was there from the very first day we broke ground and worked there to the very end.
“I am proud and delighted to have been involved and it will take a very special job to top it. My mum is chuffed. On March 14, four years ago, this was just a brownfield site. I was fortunate to be the leader of the pack but without the commitment of everyone, this wouldn’t have happened.”
 

 Alasdair works for Brookfield Multiplex Europe, who also built the new Wembley Stadium and The  Pinnacle skyscraper in London. 
He says any complex building is about making the pieces fit together properly, on time and on budget.
More than 13million man hours were put into the construction of the new Southern General, with most of the patients now housed in single rooms.
Alasdair said: “It is like an enormous jigsaw. It is the biggest hospital in the country and there were 12,000 people involved. There are over 7600 rooms and to manage that process takes quite a bit of time and patience.”
There were no reported accidents on site during the project, a record Alasdair is very proud of.
And more than 124 apprenticeships were offered through the project which provided a major boost to the local economy.
Alasdair said: “There’s a social and economic impact. I went to Govan High School and if you look out of the windows from Govan High you can see the new hospital.
 

“We involved the local community. It might sound cheesy but it was a feel good project.”
At first glance, the hospital feels more like a feat of engineering than somewhere major clinical decisions will be made.
 It could easily be the headquarters of a major international business conglomerate, not a place where  operations involve surgeons. But it is a deliberate move to keep the 12-storey facility modern, bright and a place that fosters healing, even down to specific colours being used to assist patients with dementia. 
Every effort has been used to make getting around the huge site easier, such as incorporating “podium landmarks” on each level .
This means corridors are marked with special signs – for example tractors or caravans – to make giving directions easier.
The numbers identifying the floors form a landscape image from the ground up. The ground floor is pebbles and rock, floor six features flowers and grass while floor 11 has blue sky and clouds.
Patient rooms all have a view to the outside world and are all equipped with a spacious wet room.
Scotland’s obesity problem has led to hoists being fitted in all the rooms, rather than mobile equipment clogging up the corridors.
 

All food and linen will be moved from the basement area below a lab opposite the main hospital before being taken where it is needed. The lab itself is the size of Hairmyres Hospital in East Kilbride.
The atrium of the new hospital will also have shops including WHSmith and Marks &amp; Spencer and there will be a large restaurant/coffee area on the first floor with a balcony and views on to the landscaped grounds.
The new adult hospital will be integrated with the children’s facility, but with separate entrances.
There has been concern about whether the hospital will have enough beds in the future to cope with Scotland’s ageing population and patients with complex needs. But NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde say the new Southern General will have more beds than at the sites it replaces.
In terms of car parking, a planning application for an additional 500 spaces, to take the number to 4000, is with Glasgow City Council awaiting approval.
Karen Connelly, commissioning manager for the project, has to make sure the hospital is ready to open its doors next week.
She said: “There’s just over a week to go and nothing that has been flagged up. We have teams working through the building making the final preparations– sockets being put in and patient equipment being unwrapped.
 

“So far, 7500 staff have had their orientation and have seen their departments.”
Around 400 landings a year are expected to arrive on the helipad, the first hospital in Scotland to have one on the roof.
Karen said: “It is large enough to take a Sea King. It will operate 24/7, but if it is too windy then there is a landing space on the ground or Glasgow airport is another option.
 “Clinical staff will not be going out on to the roof. The emergency staff who transfer the patient will  get them to the helipad’s lift which will take them directly to theatre, critical care or A&amp;E. 
“The hospital is unique in terms of scale. I did the commissioning of the new Victoria which in some ways was good practise.
 

“It is a fantastic site. There are a lot of skilled people who work in the NHS and it was good to be able to get them all together.”
Fiona McCluskey, a senior nurse adviser with the NHS, said staff are looking forward to starting work at the new hospital.
She said: “Patient safety has always been No1 in the design.
 “Everything is bespoke. Single rooms have large windows which you won’t see in any other hospital  in the UK. 
“Nursing staff will be working in small teams. Registered nurses are assigned groups of patients with other junior and support staff.
“There are ‘touch down’ bases dotted through the ward so the nurses, or other staff, don’t have to make their way back to the nurses station to update the patient record.”

