WITH her cheeky grin, it’s hard to believe little Madeleine Wynne was once just a few days away from being paralysed.
She was just five years old when a scan revealed she had a tumour growing on her spinal cord.
A consultant told the family that another week and the growth would have been so big, she would have lost the use of her legs.
 Madeleine, now eight, has since been diagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), a genetic condition where tumours – usually benign – grow on and inside the body. 
Her parents, David and Catherine, are now campaigning to raise awareness of NF1 and want the tell-tale signs included in the red Personal Health Record book issued to every child.
This would allow GPs to spot the signs and make an early diagnosis of the condition which affects one in 3000.
One of the key indicators of the condition is freckles or caf&eacute; au lait marks on the body – something Madeleine had since she was 12 months old but no one realised their significance.
 

 David, 42, a submariner from Helensburgh, said: “NF1 is more common than cystic fibrosis and motor neurone disease yet you are lucky if you can find a GP who has heard of it, never mind make a diagnosis. 
“Madeleine was a quiet baby, who struggled to feed and had many developmental delays.
“During many GP and hospital visits, doctors commented on her unusual freckles but none made the connection to this genetic condition.
“A diagnosis at this early stage would have meant the correct monitoring and signs of a slow-growing spinal cord tumour which was trying to paralyse her would have been spotted.”
Madeleine was a clumsy child and was always falling over but the falls grew more frequent after she turned five.
In July 2012, she complained of intense pain – but it was put down to a kidney infection.
David, also dad to Ellie, 10, said: “We were told to bring her back after a week but just three days later, Madeleine started struggling to walk and I took her up to A&amp;E.
 

 “I will never forget having to carry her for an MRI scan with her screaming uncontrollably, only to discover the truth – that she had a tumour attached to her spinal cord. The consultant at Yorkhill hospital spotted  the caf&eacute; au lait marks for what they were and she got the diagnosis of NF1.” 
The tumour turned out to be non-malignant but surgeons couldn’t remove it completely because of its location and 18 months later it grew back.
David, who’s worked with NF1 charity Funny Lumps, said: “This meant more surgery followed by 18 months of chemotherapy to shrink the growth and prevent it becoming malignant.”
He added: “Diagnosis of NF1 is poor at best. We have encountered lots of children who have had similar problems of clinicians not spotting caf&eacute; au lait marks for what they are.
“Some GPs prescribed anti-fungal cream for them and there have even been a few accusations of child abuse.
“A simple change to the child’s red health record book to check for the tell-tale marks would go a long way to rectify this problem of diagnosis.”
 For more information on NF1 or the Funny Lumps charity go to www.funnylumps.org 

