THE RECORD’S focus on a surgery in Grangemouth provided a snapshot of the meltdown facing the GP service in Scotland.
We told how two doctors – instead of eight – remain at Kerseibank Medical Practice to look after 10,000 patients amid a recruitment crisis.
Stresses of the job mean older GPs seek to retire early while young doctors turn their back on general practice.
With an election looming, politicians are queueing up to appoint themselves as saviours of the NHS.
Here, DR ClAIRE SCOTT – a GP at a semi-rural practice in Fife – tells Mark McGivern how doctors fear politicians are offering pie-in-the-sky promises in the face of a very real crisis.
 



WITH the general election looming, there have been many articles on the staffing crisis facing the NHS and General Practice.
I’m relieved the issue is now being recognised. But I am dismayed that it has taken unrealistic manifesto commitments of the main political parties to highlight this.
It’s infuriating to read about what will be happening after May, what has been promised, when you know some of the key commitments are totally unachievable.
The policy-makers must never have set foot in a practice or spoken to staff at the coalface.
I am concerned about the future number of doctors working in General Practice and I know this concern is shared by every GP.
A high proportion of GPs intend to retire in the next five years, many taking early retirement because of the increasing demands. Many others are going overseas.
 Most worrying is young doctors not choosing to go into General Practice. All things considered, it is not scaremongering to suggest that the Grangemouth situation is likely to become a much more common scenario in Scotland. 
General Practice is a difficult place to be at the minute. The job is tough, it always has been, but the last few years have seen workload and stress levels increase greatly.
Patients need to be seen and we want to see them quickly.
 

But it is important to highlight that the number of patient contacts we have in a day is high. In each and every one of these, decision making is involved. Some of these decisions and judgements are straightforward – but many are not.
 We are trained to screen for potentially more serious causes, something that needs urgent attention, referral or admission to hospital. 
Waking up in the night worrying about patients was something I expected to go away with experience – but it doesn’t.
Every day sees us dealing with a vast array of problems – medical, social, psychiatric and palliative care. Someone new in the door every 10 minutes.
 In that brief contact, we are expected to take a history and examine the patient, make a decision on medications and further investigation and precisely document it for the records and to protect us from litigation. 
We cover home visits, read large amounts of letters from hospitals and have hundreds of results to look at daily, each and every one needing a decision. After my 11-hour working day, I feel utterly drained, physically and emotionally.

The GP contract, renegotiated 10 years ago, has resulted in many health benefits but it means that a much bigger number of our appointments are dealing with chronic conditions such as diabetes, heart and lung disease, rather than dealing with acute illness alone.
 As a practice with a high proportion of elderly patients, we have many who have complex medical needs who need a lot of GP time. We have to visit a lot of patients at home, also immensely time consuming. Our income has become target-driven. 
Unfortunately, these targets change annually and increasingly are of questionable clinical value.
 This eats into time to spend directly with patients. We have become used to hearing about pressure on hospital staff and pressure on beds. Patients are turned around very quickly and we see vastly increasing numbers of patients sent home from hospital still needing a lot of medical care. 
This has placed a heavy burden on GP practices. Keeping people out of hospital is good – but only if it is adequately funded and staffed.

Missed appointments don’t help availability for patients.
Social care is amassively underfunded. If we refer a patient urgently, that means staff have 28 days to respond – this is useless when faced with the acute issues that arise with an elderly population.
It would be helpful if politicians didn’t exacerbate the recruitment crisis and low morale which is sweeping through the profession.
 Accepting demand will continue to rise, proper engagement with frontline NHS staff to allow us to move forward with a sensible long-term plan would be much more helpful than making short-term, vote-winning unachievable targets.
Some genuine appreciation of the job we do and the pressures that we work under daily, and understanding of the level of training that we have completed, would be a start. 
 The idea that 8000 more GPs can be in post by 2020 is ridiculous since it takes 10 years to train us from the point of starting university. 
Should we be thinking about offering incentives for young doctors to enter General Practice and to encourage medical staff to stay in the UK?
This could help boost GP numbers and would seem more sensible than promising seven-day opening when there are barely enough staff resources to cover current opening hours.
Is it not better to learn to walk before you can run?
 

By writing this, I am simply trying to raise awareness of some of the issues affecting General Practice and some of the reasons behind them. As GPs, we currently deal with 90 per cent of contacts within the NHS but receive only nine per cent of the budget.
A health service in which General Practice is failing is a worry for us all.
We clearly need investment but it has to be the right kind of investment and as the providers of this service, policy and decision makers need to work with GPs to achieve the best outcomes for patients in General Practice.
I started medical school in 1992 and graduated in 1997. I completed my GP training in 2002.

Most of the things that attracted me to General Practice remain but overall the job is depressingly unrecognisable.
I want to feel positive about the future of General Practice. I do feel encouraged by the ongoing commitment of my colleagues in the NHS to deliver high quality care, despite the ever-increasing challenges we face.
Whatever the election result, let’s hope GPs don’t become a dying breed.
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

