 A POLICEMAN turned MSP has urged prosecutors to review the Emma Caldwell murder investigation. 
John Finnie has tabled a question at Holyrood asking for a statement from Lord Advocate Frank Mulholland after we revealed a forgotten suspect in the inquiry.
 Iain Packer, 43, was interviewed six times by police investigating the murder 10 years ago. He admitted previously taking Emma to the remote country track where she was found dead. 
Three months later, officers charged four Turks with the murder after one of Scotland’s longest, most expensive probes but the case collapsed within 80 days.
Now Finnie, an independent Highlands MSP, has asked Mulholland for a statement on the case.
His call was backed by Labour’s justice spokesman Hugh Henry.
Emma’s family have also said they hope the inquiry will be urgently reviewed.
It comes after our revelations that Packer was not interviewed again – despite directing officers to the woods in Lanarkshire where Emma’s body was found, 30 miles from Glasgow city centre where she was last seen.
 

Finnie said: “I’ve asked the Lord Advocate to make a statement regarding the Mail’s revelations. The unquestionable priority for the Lord Advocate and Police Scotland is to trace Emma’s killer.
“Lessons can and must be learned from every inquiry and this is no exception.”
Henry, who lives in Erskine, Renfrewshire, where Emma grew up, said: “I’d welcome clarification from the Crown Office regarding the revelations about the case.
“Emma’s family deserve closure – they need to know every possible line of inquiry is being fully explored and exhausted.”
 Two weeks ago, on the 10th anniversary of Emma’s death, we revealed Packer had been a suspect in the 27-year-old’s murder. 
He admitted he had been a client of Emma – whose drug addiction drove her to prostitution – and had been with her to the area where her body was found at least six times.
More than two years after she disappeared on April 4, 2005, four Turkish men were arrested and charged following a &pound;4million operation involving months of audio and video surveillance.
But the case against Huseyin Cobanoglu, 63, Halil Kandil, 42, Abubekir Oncu, 39, and Mustafa Soylemez, 44, collapsed after lawyers questioned the accuracy of translations of allegedly incriminating conversations.
 

Yesterday, police declined to add to their statement issued two weeks ago, which insisted the probe into Emma’s death was still open.
Detective Superintendent Bobby Hendren said: “Her murder is still very much an open investigation which, as with other unsolved cases, is under constant review.
“We are committed to working on her case until we bring her killer or killers to justice.”
Packer’s forgotten role in the case only came to light after an 18-month investigation by former detective turned author Gerry Gallacher.
Last night, a Crown Office spokesman said a database was kept of all cold case homicides and cases to which the Double Jeopardy (Scotland) Act may apply.
He added: “The Cold Case Unit works with police to ascertain if there are evidential developments which would assist in providing a basis for criminal proceedings.”

