POLICE have detained a 21-year-old man in connection with the disappearance of student Karen Buckley.
Just after 6.30pm the investigation took taken a dramatic turn.
 

 
A police spokesman confirmed: “Officers are following a definite line of enquiry.”
Karen, originally from Cork in the Irish Republic, had not been seen since leaving the Sanctuary club three hours earlier and friends and family have not been able to contact her.

Her handbag was found yesterday near Dawsholme Park, streets away from a flat in Kelvindale, and search teams and forensic officers spent most of yesterday poring over the property and surrounding area, along with various locations outside Glasgow.
Clothing and another item, linked to the missing student, were found outside the main search area around the home. They are currently undergoing DNA tests.
One particular discovery was made by a member of the public and is believed to be of huge importance in the investigation.
A source said: “It could lead to a breakthrough in the inquiry.”
Officers had been seen throughout the day cordoning off a number of locations around Bearsden, and areas where a grey car was seen between 11am and 3pm on Monday.

Police had said on Tuesday that they had received several calls reporting suspicious activity in and around the north of Glasgow.
The grey car had been spotted being driven on country roads between Drymen and Milngavie.
The Record revealed residents in Dorchester Avenue had been questioned by police about a silver car parked in the street, which they later towed away following a forensic examination.
 

As well as the searches which yielded the major finds yesterday, the home and nearby Dawsholme Park remained the focus of a major forensics operation.
Officers had arrived back at the Kelvindale flat shortly before 8am yesterday to carry out detailed investigations.
The building remained cordoned off all day while a lone police officer stood guard.
The communal garden was searched inch by inch, checking flower boxes and the soil.
Police combed through shared bins in the street and later cordoned off another patch of grass to the rear of Dorchester Avenue.
A disused grassy verge next to the Forth and Clyde canal was also searched along with standalone garages in the same area.
Around 4.15pm afternoon four clear bags - marked police - were removed from the flat by forensic officers.
Specialist officers could be seen working through the window outside the second floor flat.
 

A police underwater unit, which was in attendance at the entrance to Dawsholm Park left the scene later in the day.
The entrance to the park remained cordoned off with officers standing guard and there continued to be a heavy police presence inside.
Police divers were said to have been in attendance but were not thought to have carried out an underwater search.
The police helicopter, which has been searching the west end of the city for the last three days, was spotted circling over Drymen just before 1pm.
 

Karen, from Cork in Ireland, is a trained nurse and is studying for a masters degree in occupational therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University.
On Tuesday, her parents John and Marian, made an emotional appeal for information on their daughters whereabouts after travelling to Glasgow to help the search.
John said: “Just give her back. We love her to bits.”
People in Karen’s home town of Mourneabbey prayed for her at a special Mass.
The Bishop of Cloyne, William Crean, urged locals to pray for Karen to be returned safely to her parents and brothers Brendan, Kieran and Damian.

