A 21-year-old man has been arrested in connection with the death of student Karen Buckley, whose disappearance sparked a four-day search which ended today with the discovery of human remains at a farm.
The Record understands he is Alexander Pacteau, the man who had been helping police with their inquiries in the wake of Karen's disappearance.
Miss Buckley, 24, had not been seen since she was reported missing after a night out in Glasgow at the weekend.
Pacteau was formally arrested this morning and is expected to appear at Glasgow Sheriff Court tomorrow.

A major search was launched, with police helicopters and diving teams joining the operation. Last night, police cordoned off land near High Craigton farm and Windyhills Golf Club on a country road between Glasgow and Drymen.
The area was being searched by police and firefighters – with the discovery made in the early hours of Thursday morning.
Police remained at the farm today, with several officers standing guard at the entrance to the site.
Police Scotland said: “Police Scotland officers have recovered human remains on a farm in the north Glasgow, on the outskirts of Milngavie.
“Formal identification has yet to take place, however, police believe that they may be those of missing woman Karen Buckley. Relatives are aware.
“Enquiries are continuing.”

As well as the farm, teams had been scouring Dawsholm Park in the west end of Glasgow where her handbag was found on Tuesday and a flat in the area.
However Karen, originally from Cork in the Irish Republic, had not been seen since leaving the Sanctuary club and friends and family have not been able to contact her.
The Sanctuary this morning Tweeted: &quot;Our thoughts are with Karen's friends and family&quot;.
Specialist police divers, a helicopter crew and search dogs have all been involved in the search for missing Karen.

Karen, from Cork in Ireland, is a trained nurse and is studying for a masters degree in occupational therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University.
In a statement posted on Twitter, the university said: &quot;The GCU community is deeply saddened by the recent police reports in the media regarding Karen Buckley.
&quot;Our thoughts are with Karen's family, friends and classmates at this very difficult time.
&quot;GCU's student support service, our academic staff and the advice centre at GCUSA are available to any students who need support.&quot;
On Tuesday, Karen's parents John and Marian, made an emotional appeal for information on their daughters whereabouts after travelling to Glasgow to help the search.
John said: “Just give her back. We love her to bits.”
A fundraising page set up last night by Miss Buckley's University of Limerick nursing classmates has already raised more than &pound;16,500.
They hope the cash will help her family meet costs while they are in Scotland.
A note on the gofundme page said: &quot;A huge thank you to everyone for your kind words and amazing donations - the response has been overwhelming.
&quot;We hope that what has been raised will be of help in any way possible to Karen's family.&quot;
William Crean, Catholic Bishop of Cloyne, led prayers for the student yesterday.

Ireland's minister for foreign affairs Charlie Flanagan said thoughts and prayers were with the Buckleys.
&quot;I am greatly saddened by the news emerging that Scottish police believe that a body discovered near Glasgow may be that of Karen Buckley,&quot; he said.
&quot;All of our thoughts and prayers are with Karen's parents, John and Marian, and with all of her family and friends at this tragic time.
&quot;On behalf of the government, I wish to express appreciation for all that has been done by the Scottish authorities, and especially Police Scotland in Glasgow, to find Karen and to support the Buckley family throughout this very difficult time.&quot;
Consular staff have been helping the family since her disappearance. Sean Sherlock, a junior minister from the Cork area, added: &quot;My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Karen in Mourneabbey, Cork, Glasgow and throughout the world.&quot;

