LABOUR beat the Conservatives today in a penalty shoot-out to help a motor neurone disease (MND) campaigner in his fight against the condition.
The two parties dropped campaigning hostilities to take to the football pitch in Edinburgh to show their support for Gordon Aikman, who launched a fight for more funding after being diagnosed with the incurable neurodegenerative disease last year.
His campaign, which calls for funding for MND research in the UK to be doubled, has so far raised more than &pound;250,000.
Jim Murphy's side won the shoot-out 3-2, with penalty-takers including Mr Murphy himself, health spokeswoman Jenny Marra MSP and social justice spokesman Ken Macintosh MSP.
Mr Murphy said: &quot;The Labour Party and the Tory Party have taken time off hostilities to be here to support Gordon Aikman's campaign to raise awareness about MND, because Gordon is an inspirational individual who responded to his diagnosis not by giving up but deciding to get on with it and raise funds and raise awareness about MND, so the least we can do is take an hour off the election campaign to come here, to support Gordon and play a game of football.
&quot;It's also nice to win, it's good to beat the Tories at anything, even football.&quot;

The Show MND The Red Card event, which was refereed by Mr Aikman, took place at Spartans Community Football Academy.
Tory enterprise spokesman Murdo Fraser and Tory finance spokesman Gavin Brown were among those on the Scottish Conservative team.
Mr Brown said: &quot;Today was great fun but it was actually trying to underline a serious message, the serious message of motor neurone disease, and we're really trying to highlight what needs to be done.
&quot;We need to see a doubling of the funding for research into the disease, how we can find a cure.
&quot;We need to see a big increase in the number of specialist nurses and we're here to support the excellent work that Gordon Aikman has been doing over the last couple of months.&quot;
Conservative leader David Cameron said: &quot;Gordon's campaign is an inspiration to us all and we need to do all we can to make this disease a horrible part of history.&quot;
Trade union Community has also thrown its weight behind the shoot-out and as well as providing the strips, assistant general secretary John Park was in goals for Labour.
Mr Aikman, 30, added: &quot;To see politicians put aside their differences to help people with MND means a lot.
&quot;It'll be too late for me, but we can and we must find a cure for future generations. Please donate what you can at GordonsFightback.com or by texting MNDS85 &pound;5 to 70070.&quot;

