RESIDENTS blasted chemicals giant Ineos after they revealed plans to start fracking near school playgrounds and 400metres from homes.
The news came at the first public meeting over the company’s controversial plans to extract shale gas in Scotland.
Angry locals said the move to drill boreholes close to residential homes and a school was a “slap in the face”.
The plans were revealed at a packed meeting in Denny High School in Stirlingshire. The company plan to give six per cent, around &pound;2.5billion, of its profits to communities.
Community councillor Maria Montenaro, 53, who is also part of the Concerned Communities of Falkirk group, said: “That is far too close for comfort. We wanted a two kilometre buffer zone as they have in parts of Australia.

“They have planning consent for fracking at Skinflats village near Falkirk. This is unacceptable as they will be working only a few hundred metres away from Bothkennar primary school.
 “Children are in the development stage and are far more susceptible to contaminants and other  chemicals. 
“A two kilometre buffer zone was bad enough but this is outrageous. When they said they would be as close as 400metres, it was a great shock. It was a real slap in the face.
“People made it clear they don’t want fracking 400metres from their own doorstep.”
Ineos have launched a new shale gas public information programme with the aim of informing Scottish communities about unconventional oil and gas using an “evidence based approach”.
 

The Luxembourg-based company, who recently acquired various licenses for shale gas fracking across central Scotland and northern England, say their public relations campaign is being rolled out across areas where Ineos already have shale gas licenses. More than 100 residents gathered to hear a presentation by Tom Pickering, Ineos development director, at the first in a series of public consultation exercises on Thursday night.
Friends of the Earth Scotland accused the company, who offered up to &pound;2.5billion to communities across the UK in return for hosting fracking sites, of resorting to “spin-doctors and glossy videos” in an effort to win over communities.
Mr Pickering said: “We want to explain how we intend to keep fracking safe”, saying they took safety and environmental concerns seriously.
Janette McGowan, 59, part of the Cauge Against Unconventional Gas Extraction, said: “There are so many environmental issues.
“This is a mad misadventure to make money. There are no measures in place to say how safe it is and not one of the communities it is going to effect want it to happen.”
A petition against fracking has so far gathered 600 signatures.

