
 wellison@kuhub.cc.ukans.edu writes:
 
 >i have a project that was drooped in my lap that is somewhat a pain to design.
 >what i am looking for is a stable ultra-long solid state timer. what they want
 >to do is to place this thing on the antartic ice shelf and measure the amount
 >of snow fall over a period of six weeks. every two weeks, they want to trip a
 >selonoid to discharge different colored pellets by gas pressure out across the
 >snow. then by digging down into the snow, the snow fall amount can be measured
 >as they come to the different color pellets.
 
 >the problem is trying to build a timer that would stand the cold (-40 degrees)
 >and a power source that wouldn't drain. i have looked at the xr-2204 timers and
 >the standard ne556 dual timers, but thier temp specs won't go that low. also,
 >two weeks equates to 1,209,600 seconds per firing, which means one big timing
 >cap ! i have found 2.2 farad (yes, farad !) caps that have a working voltage of
 >5 volts and are small in size. 
 
 why are you fooling around with analog for this job?  a single chip
 micro and a crystal will do the job reliably and easily.  an 8748 only
 costs about $5.  that and a $1 crystal and you're in business.  embed
 the whole thing in a foam insulated blanket, power it from a solar cell,
 use the excess power to heat the assembly during the day and rely
 on the insulation to hold the heat during darkness.  if you don't want
 to try thermal management, contact someone like icl and have them cut
 you a special low temperature crystal.  it'll cost at most $20.
 
 if you use a single chip micro, you're looking at a parts count of 
 maybe 7.  a processor, a crystal, two caps on the crystal, a power fet
 to fire the solenoid a flyback diode and a battery.  this is fewer parts than 
 you can build an analog timer for and is infinitely more reliable.  add
 a power zener diode (for heat) and a solar cell and the parts count
 screams up to 9.
 
 pd assemblers are available for all the common single chip micros.  this
 application is so trivial you could even look up the op codes in the 
 programmer's guide and create the binary with a hex editor.
 
 john
 -- 
 john de armond, wd4oqc               |interested in high performance mobility?  
 performance engineering magazine(tm) | interested in high tech and computers? 
 marietta, ga                         | send ur snail-mail address to 
 jgd@dixie.com                        | perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
 need usenet public access in atlanta?  write me for info on dixie.com.
 