
 in article <12426@sun13.scri.fsu.edu> jac@ds8.scri.fsu.edu (jim carr) writes:
 >[...]
 >i agree.  i come at this from nuclear physics, where one often discusses 
 >particle-hole excitations and certain reactions have the effect of 
 >applying an annihilation operator and creating a hole, and it is a 
 >subtle question.  the longer one works with them, the more real they 
 >become.  there are also quasi-particles, which raise the same sort 
 >of question about how "real" the entity is.  the phenomenon is most 
 >certainly a real one. 
 
 ok, i've asked this before, and with a new thread on these lines, i
 ask this again:
 
 1: if a large hole current is run thru a resistor, will there be
    i^2 * r cooling instead of heating?
 
 2: can anyone design an amplifier that preferentially amplifies
    hole currents over normal electron currents?
 
 3: what semiconductor materials have the highest ratio of
    hole mobility to electron mobility? (please quote actual
    test samples rather than estimates based on theory. also,
    don't be limited to semiconductors: consider also insulators,
    resistors, dielectrics, piezo-electrics, conductors,
    magnets (metal, ceramic), magnetostrictives, etc).
 
 notes:
 
    to summarize, this thread has so far stated that the only area
    where holes are not detectable is the vacuum. that is, hole
    particles only exist in the presence of matter.
    previous threads have stated that holes only exist in certain
    semi-conductors. the question that naturally arises is if
    the hole currents inside a semi-conductor vanish at the point
    where the semiconductor is joined to a conductor (say, copper).
    i don't want a theoretical discussion here about whether
    holes could exist inside metal conductors, rather i ask for
    an experimental discussion on how to amplify and detect such
    currents *if* they exist.
    also note that i have cross-posted this to sci.electronics
    since this is now becoming an electronic discussion.
 
 thanx,
 eric.
 
 ----
  et   "a force of nature"
 ----
 