
 since electrical wiring questions do turn up from time to time on
 sci.electronics (and the answers aren't always apparent, even to those skilled
 in electronics), i am hijacking the following faq and posting a copy here. 
 i've asked the writers to cross-post to sci.electronics in the future. 
 
 	--- jeh@cmkrnl.com
 
 
 x-news: cmkrnl news.answers: 6685
 newsgroups: misc.consumers.house,rec.woodworking,news.answers,misc.answers,rec.answers
 subject: electrical wiring faq
 message-id: <wirefaq_733900891@ecicrl>
 from: clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (chris lewis)
 date: 4 apr 93 05:21:49 gmt
 reply-to: wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (wiring faq commentary reception)
 followup-to: poster
 expires: 2 may 93 05:21:31 gmt
 organization: elegant communications inc., ottawa, canada
 summary: a series of questions and answers about house wiring
 approved: news-answers-request@mit.edu
 supersedes: <wirefaq_732691289@ecicrl>
 lines: 1524
 
 archive-name: electrical-wiring
 last-modified: sun feb 21 16:56:10 est 1993
 
 	    frequently asked questions on electrical wiring
 
 		steven bellovin (smb@ulysses.att.com)
 		chris lewis (clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca)
 
 	    comments to (automatic if you reply to this article):
 		    wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
 
 this faq is formatted as a digest.  most news readers can
 skip from one question to the next by pressing ^g.
 
 answers to many other topics related to houses can be obtained from
 the misc.consumers.house archive; send an empty piece of mail to
 house-archive@dg-rtp.dg.com for information.
 
 changes to previous issue marked with "|" in left column.  watch
 particularly for "new" in the questions list for new or substantively
 changed answers.
 
 note that this is now a registered faq - cross-posted to news.answers
 and should appear in the faq list of lists.
 
 subject: questions answered in this faq
 
 	introduction/disclaimers
 	what is the nec?  where can i get a copy?
 	what is the cec?  where can i get a copy?
 	can i do my own wiring?  extra pointers?
 	what do i need in the way of tools?
 	what is ul listing?
 	what is csa approval?
 	are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?
 	inspections how and what?  why should i get my wiring inspected?
 	my house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.
 	a word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240
 	what does an electrical service look like?
 	what is a circuit?
 	"grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".
 	what does a fuse or breaker do?  what are the differences?
 	breakers?  can't i use fuses?
 	what size wire should i use?
 	where do these numbers come from?
 	what does "14-2" mean?
 	what is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector".  how are they used?
 	what is a gfi/gfci?
 	where should gfcis be used?
 	where shouldn't i use a gfci?
 	what is the difference between a gfci outlet and a gfci breaker?
 	what's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?
 	why is one prong wider than the other?  polarization
 	what kind of outlets do i need in a kitchen?
 	where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?
 	what is romex/nm/nmd?  what is bx?  when should i use each?
 	should i use plastic or metal boxes?
 	junction box positioning?
 	can i install a replacement fixture?
 	what does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?
 	what is 3 phase power?  should i use it?  can i get it in my house?
 	is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?
 	what is this nonsense about 3hp on 110v 15a circuits?
 	how do i convert two prong receptacles to three prong?
 	are you sure about gfcis and ungrounded outlets?
 	    should the test button work?
 	how should i wire my shop?
 	underground wiring
 	aluminum wiring
 	i'm buying a house!  what should i do?
 	what is this weird stuff?  old style wiring
 	where do i buy stuff?
 
 
 subject: introduction/disclaimers
 
 	although we've done a fair bit of wiring, we are not
 	electricians, and we cannot be responsible for what you do.  if
 	you're at all uncertain about what is correct or safe, *don't
 	do it*.  contact someone qualified -- a licensed electrician,
 	or your local electrical inspector.  electricity is no joke;
 	mistakes can result in shocks, fires, or electrocution.
 
 	furthermore, our discussion is based on the u.s. national
 	electrical code (nec) and the canadian electrical code (cec).
 	to the best of our abilities, we have confirmed every detail
 	with the electrical code, but we don't quote sections
 	simply to keep this thing readable.  if you think we're wrong,
 	we invite you to correct us, but please - quote references!
 
 	the nec and the cec do not, in and of themselves, have the
 	force of law.  many municipalities adopt it en toto.  others,
 	however, do not.  check your with your local building
 	department (and <provincial> hydro inspection offices in
 	canada) to find out what applies in your area.  also,
 	your local electrical utility may also have special requirements
 	for electrical service installation.  bear in mind, too, that
 	we say here applies primarily to ordinary single-family
 	residences.  multi-family dwellings, mobile homes, commercial
 	establishments, etc., are sometimes governed by different
 	rules.
 
 	also note that, contrary to popular belief in the u.s. (and in
 	some parts of canada), canada is not a wholly-owned subsidiary
 	of the u.s.  consequently, the nec does not apply in canada.
 	lots of things are the same, including voltages, line
 	frequencies, and the laws of physics.  but there are a number
 	of crucial differences in the regulations.  where we can, we've
 	noted them, flagging the relevant passages with ``nec'' or
 	``cec''.
 
 	remember that the cec and nec are minimal standards.  it is often
 	smart to go beyond their minimal requirements.
 
 subject: what is the nec?  where can i get a copy?
 
 	the nec is a model electrical code devised and published by the
 	national fire protection association, an insurance industry group.
 	it's revised every three years.  the 1993 version has been released.
 	you can buy a copy at a decent bookstore, or by calling them directly
 	at 800-344-3555.  the code exists in several versions.  there's the
 	full text, which is fairly incomprehensible.  there's an abridged
 	edition, which has only the sections likely to apply to most houses.
 	and there's the nec handbook, which contains the ``authorized
 	commentary'' on the code, as well as the full text.  that's the
 	recommended version.  unfortunately, there's no handbook for
 	the abridged edition.  and the full handbook is expensive --
 	us$65 plus shipping and handling.
 
 subject: what is the cec?  where can i get a copy?
 
 	the canadian standards association is an organization made up
 	of various government agencies, power utilities, insurance
 	companies, electrical manufacturers and other organizations.
 	the csa publishes csa standard c22.1 which is updated every two
 	or three years.  each province adopts, with some amendments,
 	this standard and publishes a province-specific code book.
 	since each province publishes its own slightly modified
 	standard, it would be somewhat confusing to obtain the csa
 	standard itself.  in this faq, "cec" really means the
 	appropriate provincial standard.  in particular, this faq is
 	derived from the ontario hydro electrical safety code, 20th
 	edition (1990).  which is in turn based on csa c22.1-1990 (16th
 	edition).  while differences exist between the provinces, an
 	attempt has been made to avoid specific-to-ontario detail.
 
 	the appropriate provincial code can be obtained from electrical
 	inspection offices of your provincial power authority.  in
 	ontario, it's ontario hydro.  the ontario hydro book isn't
 	overly fat.  it's about c$25, and includes mailed updates.  i
 	hear that these standards are somewhat easier to read than the
 	equivalent nec publications.
 
 	don't bother asking in quebec - diy wiring is banned throughout
 	the province.
 
 subject: can i do my own wiring?  extra pointers?
 
 	in most places, homeowners are allowed to do their own wiring.
 	in some, they're not.  check with your local electrical
 	inspector.  most places won't permit you to do wiring on other's
 	homes for money without a license.  nor are you permitted to do
 	wiring in "commercial" buildings.  multiple dwellings (eg: duplexes)
 	are usually considered "semi-commercial" or "commercial".  however,
 	many jurisdictions will permit you to work on semi-commercial
 	wiring if you're supervised by a licensed electrician - if you can
 	find one willing to supervise.
 
 	if you do your own wiring, an important point:
 
 	do it neat and well!  what you really want to aim for is a better
 	job than an electrician will do.  after all, it's your own home,
 	and it's you or your family that might get killed if you make
 	a mistake.  an electrician has time pressures, has the skills
 	and knows the tricks of the trade to do a fast, safe job.
 	in this faq we've consciously given a few recommendations that
 	are in excess of code, because we feel that it's reasonable,
 	and will impress the inspector.
 
 	the inspector will know that you're an amateur.  you have to
 	earn his trust.  the best way of doing this is to spend your
 	time doing as neat a job as possible.  don't cut corners.
 	exceed specifications.  otherwise, the inspector may get extremely
 	picky and fault you on the slightest transgressions.
 
 	don't try to hide anything from the inspector.
 
 	use the proper tools.  ie: don't use a bread knife to strip
 	wires, or twist wires with your fingers.  the inspector
 	won't like it, and the results won't be that safe.  and it
 	takes longer.  and you're more likely to stick a hunk of
 	12ga wire through your hand that way.
 
 	don't handle house wire when it's very cold (eg: below -10c
 	or 16f).  thermoplastic house wire, particularly older types
 	become very brittle.
 
 subject: what do i need in the way of tools?
 
 	first, there's the obvious -- a hammer, a drill, a few
 	screwdrivers, both straight and phillips-head.  if you're 
 	lucky enough to live in canada (or find a source of csa-approved
 	devices) you need robertson ("square recess") screwdrivers
 	(#1 and #2) instead of phillips.
 
 	for drilling a few holes, a 3/4" or 1" spade bit and 1/4" or
 	3/8" electric drill will do.  if you're doing a lot, or
 	are working with elderly lumber, we recommend a 1/2" drill
 	(right-angle drills are wonderful.  can be rented) and
 	3/4" or 1" screw-point auger drill bits.  these bits pull
 	you through, so they're much faster and less fatiguing, even
 	in 90 year old hardwood timbers.
 
 	screw-driver bits are useful for drills, expecially if you
 	install your electrical boxes using screws (drywall screws
 	work well).
 	
 	for stripping wire, use a real wire stripper, not a knife or
 	ordinary wire cutters.  don't buy the $3 k-mart "combo stripper,
 	crimper and bottle opener" types.  you should expect to pay
 	$15 to $20 for a good "plier-type" pair.  it will have sized
 	stripping holes, and won't nick or grab the wire - it should
 	be easy to strip wire with it.  one model has a small hole in the
 	blade for forming exact wire loops for screw terminals.  there
 	are fancier types (autostrip/cut), but they generally aren't
 	necessary, and pros usually don't use them.
 
 	a pair of diagonal side cutter pliers are useful for clipping ends
 	in constricted places.  don't use these for stripping wire.
 
 	you will need linesman pliers for twisting wires for wire nuts.
 
 	you should have a pair of needle-nose pliers for fiddling
 	inside boxes and closing loops, but it's better to form wire
 	loops with a "loop former hole" on your wire stripper - more
 	accurate.
 
 	if you're using non-metallic cable, get a cable stripper for
 	removing the sheath.  or, do what some pros do, they nick the
 	end of the sheath, grab the ground wire with a pair of pliers,
 	and simply rip the sheath back using the ground wire as a
 	"zipper", and cut the sheath off.  you shouldn't try to strip
 	the sheath with a knife point, because it's too easy to
 	slash the insulation on the conductors.  apparently stanley
 	utility knives fitted with linoleum cutters (hooked blades)
 	can be used to strip sheath, but there is still the possibility
 	that you'll gouge the conductors.
 
 	for any substantial amount of work with armored cable, it's well
 	worth your while to invest in a rotary cable splitter (~us$ 18).
 	hack saws are tricky to use without cutting into the wire
 	or the insulation.
 
 	three-prong outlet testers are a quick check for properly-wired
 	outlets.  about $6.  multimeters tell you more, but are a lot more
 	expensive, and probably not worth it for most people.  a simple
 	voltage sensor, which can detect potential through an insulated
 	wire not supplying any devices, is extremely helpful; they cost
 	about us$ 10 at radio shack.
 
 	you should have a voltage detector - to check that the wires are
 	dead before doing work on them.  neon-bulb version are cheap ($2-3)
 	and work well.  if you get more serious, a "audible alarm" type is
 	good for tracing circuits without a helper.  (though i've been known
 	to lock the drill on, and hit breakers until the scream stops ;-)
 
 	for running wires through existing walls, you need fish tape.
 	often, two tapes are needed, though sometimes, a bent hanger or
 	a length of thin chain will suffice.  fish tapes can be rented.
 
 	electrical tape.  lots of it ;-)  seriously, a good and competent
 	wiring job will need very little tape.  the tape is useful for
 	wrapping dicy insulation in repair work.  another use is to wrap 
 	around the body of outlets and switches to cover the termination
 	screws - i don't do this, but drywall contractors prefer it (to
 	prevent explosions when the drywall knife collides with a live outlet
 	that has no cover plate).
 
 subject: what is ul listing?
 
 	the ul stands for "underwriters laboratory".  it used to be
 	an insurance industry organization, but now it is independent
 	and non-profit.  it tests electrical components and equipment
 	for potential hazards.  when something is ul-listed, that means
 	that the ul has tested the device, and it meets their requirements
 	for safety - ie: fire or shock hazard.  it doesn't necessarily
 	mean that the device actually does what it's supposed to, just
 	that it probably won't kill you.
 
 	the ul does not have power of law in the u.s. -- you are
 	permitted to buy and install non-ul-listed devices.  however,
 	insurance policies sometimes have clauses in them that will
 	limit their liability in case of a claim made in response to
 	the failure of a non-ul-listed device.  furthermore, in
 	many situations the nec will require that a wiring component
 	used for a specific purpose is ul-listed for that purpose.
 	indirectly, this means that certain parts of your wiring
 	must be ul-listed before an inspector will approve it and/or
 	occupancy permits issued.
 	
 subject: what is csa approval?
 
 	every electrical device or component must be certified by the
 	canadian standards association before it can be sold in
 	canada.  implicit in this is that all wiring must be done
 	with csa-approved materials.  they perform testing similar to
 	the ul (a bit more stringent), except that csa approval is
 	required by law.
 
 	again, like the ul, if a fire was caused by non-csa-approved
 	equipment, your insurance company may not have to pay the
 	claim.
 
 	in canada, there is a branch organization of the ul, called ulc
 	(ul of canada).  ulc does not have power of law, and seems to
 	be more a liason group between the csa and insurance
 	companies.
 
 subject: are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?
 
 	usa: the following three books were suggested by our readers
 
 	    residential wiring
 	    by jeff markell,
 	    craftsman books,
 	    carlsbad ca for $18.25. isbn 0-934041-19-9.
 
 	    practical electrical wiring
 	    residential, farm and industrial,  based on the national
 	    electrical code    ansi/nfpa 70
 	    herbert p. richter and w. creighton schwan
 	    mcgraw-hill book co.
 
 	    wiring simplified
 	    h. p. richter and w. c. schwan
 	    park publishing co.
 	
 	try to make sure that the book is based on the latest nec
 	revision.  which is currently 1990.
 
 	canada: p.s. knight authors and publishes a book called
 	"electrical code simplified".  there appears to be a version
 	published specific to each province, and is very tied into the
 	appropriate provincial code.  it focuses on residential wiring,
 	and is indispensible for canadian diy'ers.  it is better to get
 	this book than the cec unless you do a lot of wiring (or answer
 	questions on the net ;-).
 
 	it is updated each time the provincial codes are.  this book is
 	available at all diy and hardware stores for less than c$10.
 
 subject: inspections how and what?  why should i get my wiring inspected?
 
 	most jurisdictions require that you obtain a permit and
 	inspections of any wiring that is done.  amongst other more
 	mundane bureaucratic reasons (like insurance companies not
 	liking to have to pay claims), a permit and inspections
 	provides some assurance that you, your family, your neighbors
 	or subsequent owners of your home don't get killed or lose
 	their homes one night due to a sloppy wiring job.
 
 	most jurisdictions have the power to order you to vacate your
 	home, or order you to tear out any wiring done without a
 	permit.  california, for instance, is particularly nasty about
 	this.
 
 	if fire starts in your home, and un-inspected wiring is at
 	fault, insurance companies will often refuse to pay the damage
 	claims.
 
 	in general, the process goes like this:
 		- you apply to your local inspections office or building
 		  department for a permit.  you should have a sketch or
 		  detailed drawing of what you plan on doing.  this is
 		  a good time to ask questions on any things you're not
 		  sure of.  if you're doing major work, they may impose
 		  special conditions on you, require loading
 		  calculations and ask other questions.  at this point
 		  they will tell you which inspections you will need.
 		- if you're installing a main panel, you will need to
 		  have the panel and service connections inspected
 		  before your power utility will provide a connection.
 		  this is sometimes done by the local power authority
 		  rather than the usual inspectors.
 		- after installing the boxes and wiring, but before
 		  the insulation/walls go up, you will need a
 		  "rough-in" inspection.
 		- after the walls are up, and the wiring is complete,
 		  you will need a "final inspection".
 
 subject: my house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.
 	do i have to upgrade?
 
 	in general, there is no requirement to upgrade older dwellings,
 	though there are some exceptions (ie: smoke detectors in some
 	cases).  however, any new work must be done according to the
 	latest electrical code.  also, if you do ``major'' work, you
 	may be required to upgrade certain existing portions or all
 	of your system.  check with your local electrical inspector.
 
 subject: a word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240
 
 	one thing where things might get a bit confusing is the
 	different numbers people bandy about for the voltage of
 	a circuit.  one person might talk about 110v, another 117v
 	or another 120v.  these are all, in fact, exactly the same
 	thing...  in north america the utility companies are required
 	to supply a split-phase 240 volt (+-5%) feed to your house.
 	this works out as two 120v +- 5% legs.  additionally, since there
 	are resistive voltage drops in the house wiring, it's not
 	unreasonable to find 120v has dropped to 110v or 240v has dropped
 	to 220v by the time the power reaches a wall outlet.  especially
 	at the end of an extension cord or long circuit run.  for a number
 	of reasons, some historical, some simple personal orneryness,
 	different people choose call them by slightly different numbers.
 	this faq has chosen to be consistent with calling them "110v" and
 	"220v", except when actually saying what the measured voltage will
 	be.  confusing?  a bit.  just ignore it.
 
 	one thing that might make this a little more understandable
 	is that the nameplates on equipment ofen show the lower (ie: 110v
 	instead of 120v) value.  what this implies is that the device
 	is designed to operate properly when the voltage drops that
 	low.
 
 	208v is *not* the same as 240v.  208v is the voltage between
 	phases of a 3-phase "y" circuit that is 120v from neutral to any
 	hot.   480v is the voltage between phases of a 3-phase "y"
 	circuit that's 277v from hot to neutral.
 
 	in keeping with 110v versus 120v strangeness, motors intended
 	to run on 480v three phase are often labelled as 440v...
 
 subject: what does an electrical service look like?
 
 	there are logically four wires involved with supplying the
 	main panel with power.  three of them will come from the utility
 	pole, and a fourth (bare) wire comes from elsewhere.
 
  	the bare wire is connected to one or more long metal bars pounded
  	into the ground, or to a wire buried in the foundation, or sometimes
  	to the water supply pipe (has to be metal, continuous to where
 	the main water pipe entering the house.  watch out for galvanic
 	action conductivity "breaks" (often between copper and iron pipe)).
 	this is the "grounding conductor".  it is there to make sure that
 	the third prong on your outlets is connected to ground.  this wire
 	normally carries no current.
 
 	one of the other wires will be white (or black with white or
 	yellow stripes, or sometimes simply black).  it is the neutral wire.
 	it is connected to the "centre tap" (cec; "center tap" in the
 	nec) of the distribution transformer supplying the power.  it
 	is connected to the grounding conductor in only one place (often
 	inside the panel).  the neutral and ground should not be connected
 	anywhere else.  otherwise, weird and/or dangerous things may happen.
 
 	furthermore, there should only be one grounding system in
 	a home.  some codes require more than one grounding electrode.
 	these will be connected together, or connected to the neutral
 	at a common point - still one grounding system.  adding additional
 	grounding electrodes connected to other portions of the house
 	wiring is unsafe and contrary to code.
 
 	if you add a subpanel, the ground and neutral are usually
 	brought as separate conductors from the main panel, and are
 	not connected together in the subpanel (ie: still only one
 	neutral-ground connection).  however, in some situations 
 	(certain categories of separate buildings) you actually do
 	have to provide a second grounding electrode - consult your
 	inspector.
 
 	the other two wires will usually be black, and are the "hot"
 	wires.  they are attached to the distribution transformer as
 	well.
 
 	the two black wires are 180 degrees out of phase with each
 	other.  this means if you connect something to both hot wires,
 	the voltage will be 220 volts.  if you connect something to the
 	white and either of the two blacks you will get 110v.
 
 	some panels seem to only have three wires coming into them.
 	this is either because the neutral and ground are connected
 	together at a different point (eg: the meter or pole) and one
 	wire is doing dual-duty as both neutral and ground, or in some
 	rare occasions, the service has only one hot wire (110v only
 	service).
 
 subject: what is a circuit?
 
 	inside the panel, connections are made to the incoming wires.
 	these connections are then used to supply power to selected
 	portions of the home.  there are three different combinations:
 		1) one hot, one neutral, and ground: 110v circuit.
 		2) two hots, no neutral, and ground: 220v circuit.
 		3) two hots, neutral, and ground: 220v circuit + neutral,
 		   and/or two 110v circuits with a common neutral.
 
 	(1) is used for most circuits supplying receptacles and
 	lighting within your house.  (3) is usually used for supplying
 	power to major appliances such as stoves, and dryers - they
 	often have need for both 220v and 110v, or for bringing several
 	circuits from the panel box to a distribution point.  (2) is
 	usually for special 220v motor circuits, electric heaters, or
 	air conditioners.
 
 	[note: in the us, the nec frequently permits a circuit similar
 	to (2) be used for stoves and dryers - namely, that there
 	are two hot wires, and a wire that does dual duty as neutral
 	and ground, and is connected to the frame as well as providing
 	the neutral for 110v purposes - three prong plugs instead
 	of four (*only* for stoves/dryers connected to the main panel.
 	when connected to most sub-panels, 4 prong plugs and receptacles
 	are required).  in our not-so-humble opinion this is crazy, but
 	the nfpa claims that this practice was re-evaluated for the 1992 nec,
 	and found to be safe.  check your local codes, or inquire as to
 	local practice -- there are restrictions on when this is
 	permissible.]
 
 	(1) is usually wired with three conductor wire: black for hot,
 	white for neutral, and bare for grounding.
 
 	(2) and (3) have one hot wire coloured red, the other black, a
 	bare wire for grounding, and in (3) a white wire for neutral.
 
 	you will sometimes see (2) wired with just a black, white and ground
 	wire.  since the white is "hot" in this case, both the nec and cec
 	requires that the white wire be "permanently marked" at the ends
 	to indicate that it is a live wire.  usually done with paint, nail
 	polish or sometimes electrical tape.
 
 	each circuit is attached to the main wires coming into the
 	panel through a circuit breaker or fuse.
 
 	there are, in a few locales, circuits that look like (1), (2)
 	or (3) except that they have two bare ground wires.  some places
 	require this for hot tubs and the like (one ground is "frame ground",
 	the other attaches to the motor).  this may or may not be an
 	alternative to gfci protection.
 
 subject: "grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".
 
 	according to the terminology in the cec and nec, the
 	"grounding" conductor is for the safety ground, i.e., the green
 	or bare wire.  the word "neutral" is reserved for the white when
 	you have a circuit with more than one "hot" wire.  since the white
 	wire is connected to neutral and the grounding conductor inside the
 	panel, the proper term is "grounded conductor".  however, the
 	potential confusion between "grounded conductor" and "grounding
 	conductor" can lead to potentially lethal mistakes - you should
 	never use the bare wire as a "grounded conductor" or white wire
 	as the "grounding conductor", even though they are connected
 	together in the panel.
 
 	[but not in subpanels - subpanels are fed neutral and ground
 	separately from the main panel.  usually.]
 
 	in the trade, and in common usage, the word "neutral" is used
 	for "grounded conductor".  this faq uses "neutral" simply to
 	avoid potential confusion.  we recommend that you use "neutral"
 	too.  thus the white wire is always (except in some light
 	switch applications) neutral.  not ground.
 
 subject: what does a fuse or breaker do?  what are the differences?
 
 	fuses and circuit breakers are designed to interrupt the power
 	to a circuit when the current flow exceeds safe levels.  for
 	example, if your toaster shorts out, a fuse or breaker should
 	"trip", protecting the wiring in the walls from melting.  as
 	such, fuses and breakers are primarily intended to protect the
 	wiring -- ul or csa approval supposedly indicates that the
 	equipment itself won't cause a fire.
 
 	fuses contain a narrow strip of metal which is designed to melt
 	(safely) when the current exceeds the rated value, thereby
 	interrupting the power to the circuit.  fuses trip relatively
 	fast.  which can sometimes be a problem with motors which have
 	large startup current surges.  for motor circuits, you can use
 	a "time-delay" fuse (one brand is "fusetron") which will avoid
 	tripping on momentary overloads.  a fusetron looks like a
 	spring-loaded fuse.  a fuse can only trip once, then it must be
 	replaced.
 
 	breakers are fairly complicated mechanical devices.  they
 	usually consist of one spring loaded contact which is latched
 	into position against another contact.  when the current flow
 	through the device exceeds the rated value, a bimetallic strip
 	heats up and bends.  by bending it "trips" the latch, and the
 	spring pulls the contacts apart.  circuit breakers behave
 	similarly to fusetrons - that is, they tend to take longer to
 	trip at moderate overloads than ordinary fuses.  with high
 	overloads, they trip quickly.  breakers can be reset a finite
 	number of times - each time they trip, or are thrown
 	when the circuit is in use, some arcing takes place, which
 	damages the contacts.  thus, breakers should not be used in
 	place of switches unless they are specially listed for the
 	purpose.
 
 	neither fuses nor breakers "limit" the current per se.  a dead
 	short on a circuit can cause hundreds or sometimes even
 	thousands of amperes to flow for a short period of time, which
 	can often cause severe damage.
 
 subject: breakers?  can't i use fuses?
 
 	statistics show that fuse panels have a significantly higher
 	risk of causing a fire than breaker panels.  this is usually
 	due to the fuse being loosely screwed in, or the contacts
 	corroding and heating up over time, or the wrong size fuse
 	being installed, or the proverbial "replace the fuse with a
 	penny" trick.
 
 	since breakers are more permanently installed, and have better
 	connection mechanisms, the risk of fire is considerably less.
 
 	fuses are prone to explode under extremely high overload.  when
 	a fuse explodes, the metallic vapor cloud becomes a conducting
 	path.  result? from complete meltdown of the electrical panel,
 	melted service wiring, through fires in the electrical
 	distribution transformer and having your house burn down.
 	breakers don't do this.
 
 	many jurisdictions, particularly in canada, no longer permit
 	fuse panels in new installations.  the nec does permit new
 	fuse panels in some rare circumstances (requiring the special
 	inserts to "key" the fuseholder to specific size fuses)
 
 	some devices, notably certain large air conditioners, require fuse
 	protection in addition to the breaker at the panel.  the fuse
 	is there to protect the motor windings from overload.  check the
 	labeling on the unit.  this is usually only on large permanently
 	installed motors.  the installation instructions will tell you
 	if you need one.
 
 subject: what size wire should i use?
 
 	for a 20 amp circuit, use 12 gauge wire.  for a 15 amp circuit,
 	you can use 14 gauge wire (in most locales).  for a long run,
 	though, you should use the next larger size wire, to avoid
 	voltage drops.  12 gauge is only slightly more expensive than
 	14 gauge, though it's stiffer and harder to work with.
 
 	here's a quick table for normal situations.  go up a size for
 	more than 100 foot runs, when the cable is in conduit, or
 	ganged with other wires in a place where they can't dissipate
 	heat easily:
 
 		gauge		amps
 		14		15
 		12		20
 		10		30
 		8		40
 		6		65
 	
 	we don't list bigger sizes because it starts getting very dependent
 	on the application and precise wire type.
 
 subject: where do these numbers come from?
 
 	there are two considerations, voltage drop and heat buildup.
 	the smaller the wire is, the higher the resistance is.  when
 	the resistance is higher, the wire heats up more, and there is
 	more voltage drop in the wiring.  the former is why you need
 	higher-temperature insulation and/or bigger wires for use in
 	conduit; the latter is why you should use larger wire for long
 	runs.
 
 	neither effect is very significant over very short distances.
 	there are some very specific exceptions, where use of smaller
 	wire is allowed.  the obvious one is the line cord on most
 	lamps.  don't try this unless you're certain that your use fits
 	one of those exceptions; you can never go wrong by using larger
 	wire.
 
 subject: what does "14-2" mean?
 
 	this is used to describe the size and quantity of conductors
 	in a cable.  the first number specifies the gauge.  the second
 	the number of current carrying conductors in the wire - but
 	remember there's usually an extra ground wire.  "14-2" means
 	14 gauge, two insulated current carrying wires, plus bare ground.
 
 	-2 wire usually has a black, white and bare ground wire.  sometimes
 	the white is red instead for 220v circuits without neutral.  in
 	the latter case, the sheath is usually red too.
 
 	-3 wire usually has a black, red, white and bare ground wire.
 	usually carrying 220v with neutral.
 
 subject: what is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector"?  how are they
 	used?
 
 	a wire nut is a cone shaped threaded plastic thingummy that's used
 	to connect wires together.  "marrette" or "marr connector"
 	are trade names.  you'll usually use a lot of them in diy wiring.
 
 	in essence, you strip the end of the wires about an inch, twist them
 	together, then twist the wirenut on.
 
 	though some wirenuts advertise that you don't need to twist the
 	wire, do it anyways - it's more mechanically and electrically
 	secure.
 
 	there are many different sizes of wire nut.  you should check
 	that the wire nut you're using is the correct size for the
 	quantity and sizes of wire you're connecting together.
 
 	don't just gimble the wires together with a pair of pliers or
 	your fingers.  use a pair of blunt nose ("linesman") pliers,
 	and carefully twist the wires tightly and neatly.  sometimes
 	it's a good idea to trim the resulting end to make sure it
 	goes in the wirenut properly.
 
 	some people wrap the "open" end of the wirenut with electrical
 	tape.  this is probably not a good idea - the inspector may
 	tear it off during an inspection.  it's usually done because
 	a bit of bare wire is exposed outside the wire nut - instead
 	of taping it, the connection should be redone.
 
 subject: what is a gfi/gfci?
 
 	a gfci is a ``ground-fault circuit interrupter''.  it measures
 	the current current flowing through the hot wire and the
 	neutral wire.  if they differ by more than a few milliamps, the
 	presumption is that current is leaking to ground via some other
 	path.  this may be because of a short circuit to the chassis of
 	an appliance, or to the ground lead, or through a person.  any
 	of these situations is hazardous, so the gfci trips, breaking
 	the circuit.
 
 	gfcis do not protect against all kinds of electric shocks.  if,
 	for example, you simultaneously touched the hot and neutral
 	leads of a circuit, and no part of you was grounded, a gfci
 	wouldn't help.  all of the current that passed from the hot
 	lead into you would return via the neutral lead, keeping the
 	gfci happy.
 
 	the two pairs of connections on a gfci outlet are not symmetric.
 	one is labeled load; the other, line.  the incoming power feed
 	*must* be connected to the line side, or the outlet will not be
 	protected.  the load side can be used to protect all devices
 	downstream from it.  thus, a whole string of outlets can be
 	covered by a single gfci outlet.
 
 subject: where should gfcis be used?
 
 	the nec mandates gfcis for 110v, 15a or 20a single phase
 	outlets, in bathrooms, kitchens within 6' of the sink, garages,
 	unfinished basements or crawl spaces, outdoors, near a pool, or
 	just about anywhere else where you're likely to encounter water
 	or dampness.  there are exceptions for inaccessible outlets,
 	those dedicated to appliances ``occupying fixed space'',
 	typically refrigerators and freezers, and for sump pumps and
 	laundry appliances.
 
 	the cec does not mandate as many gfcis.  in particular, there
 	is no requirement to protect kitchen outlets, or most garage or
 	basement outlets.  basement outlets must be protected if you
 	have a dirt floor, garage outlets if they're near the door to
 	outside.  bathrooms and most exterior outlets must have gfcis.
 
 	even if you are not required to have gfci protection, you may
 	want to consider installing it anyway.  unless you need a gfci
 	breaker (see below), the cost is low.  in the u.s., gfci
 	outlets can cost as little as us$8.  (costs are a bit higher in
 	canada:  c$12.)  evaluate your own risk factors.  does your
 	finished basement ever get wet?  do you have small children?
 	do you use your garage outlets to power outdoor tools?  does
 	water or melted snow ever puddle inside your garage?
 
 subject: where shouldn't i use a gfci?
 
 	gfcis are generally not used on circuits that (a) don't pose a
 	safety risk, and (b) are used to power equipment that must run
 	unattended for long periods of time.  refrigerators, freezers,
 	and sump pumps are good examples.  the rationale is that gfcis
 	are sometimes prone to nuisance trips.  some people claim that
 	the inductive delay in motor windings can cause a momentary
 	current imbalance, tripping the gfci.  note, though, that most
 	gfci trips are real; if you're getting a lot of trips for no
 	apparent reason, you'd be well-advised to check your wiring
 	before deciding that the gfci is broken or useless.
 
 subject: what is the difference between a gfci outlet and a gfci breaker?
 
 	for most situations, you can use either a gfci outlet as the
 	first device on the circuit, or you can install a breaker with
 	a built-in gfci.  the former is generally preferred, since gfci
 	breakers are quite expensive.  for example, an ordinary ge
 	breaker costs ~us$5; the gfci model costs ~us$35.  there is one
 	major exception:  if you need to protect a ``multi-wire branch
 	circuit'' (two or more circuits sharing a common neutral wire),
 	such as a canadian-style kitchen circuit, you'll need a
 	multi-pole gfci breaker.  unfortunately, these are expensive;
 	the cost can range into the hundreds of dollars, depending on
 	what brand of panel box you have.  but if you must protect such
 	a circuit (say, for a pool heater), you have no choice.
 
 	one more caveat -- gfci outlets are bulky.  you may want to use
 	an oversize box when installing them.  on second thought, use
 	large (actually deep) boxes everywhere.  you'll thank yourself for it.
 
 	incidentally, if you're installing a gfci to ensure that one
 	specific outlet is protected (such as a bathroom), you don't
 	really have to go to all of the trouble to find the first
 	outlet in the circuit, you could simply find the first outlet
 	in the bathroom, and not gfci anything upstream of it.  but
 	protecting the whole circuit is preferred.
 
 	when you install a gfci, it's a good idea to use the little
 	"ground fault protected" stickers that come with it and mark
 	the outlets downstream of the gfci.  you can figure out which
 	outlets are "downstream", simply by tripping the gfci with the
 	test button and see which outlets are dead.
 
 subject: what's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?
 
 	apart from their use in electronics, which we won't comment on,
 	and for certain fluorescent lights (they won't turn on without
 	a good ground connection), they're intended to guard against
 	insulation failures within the device.  generally, the case of
 	the appliance is connected to the ground lead.  if there's an
 	insulation failure that shorts the hot lead to the case, the
 	ground lead conducts the electricity away safely (and possibly
 	trips the circuit breaker in the process).  if the case is not
 	grounded and such a short occurs, the case is live -- and if
 	you touch it while you're grounded, you'll get zapped.  of
 	course, if the circuit is gfci-protected, it will be a very
 	tiny zap -- which is why you can use gfcis to replace
 	ungrounded outlets (both nec and cec).
 
 	there are some appliances that should *never* be grounded.  in
 	particular, that applies to toasters and anything else with
 	exposed conductors.  consider:  if you touch the heating
 	electrode in a toaster, and you're not grounded, nothing will
 	happen.  if you're slightly grounded, you'll get a small shock;
 	the resistance will be too high.  but if the case were
 	grounded, and you were holding it, you'd be the perfect path to
 	ground...
 
 subject: why is one prong wider than the other?  polarization
 
 	nowadays, many two-prong devices have one prong wider than the
 	other.  this is so that the device could rely (not guaranteed!)
 	on one specific wire being neutral, and the other hot.
 	this is particularly advantageous in light fixtures, where the
 	the shell should neutral (safety), or other devices which want to
 	have an approximate ground reference (ie: some radios).
 
 	most 2-prong extension cords have wide prongs too.
 
 	this requires that you wire your outlets and plugs the right
 	way around.  you want the wide prong to be neutral, and the
 	narrow one hot.  most outlets have a darker metal for the
 	hot screw, and lighter coloured screw for the neutral.
 	if not, you can usually figure out which is which by which
 	prong the terminating screw connects to.
 
 subject: what kind of outlets do i need in a kitchen?
 
 	the nec requires at least two 20 amp ``small appliance
 	circuits'' for kitchens.  the cec requires split-duplex
 	receptacles.  outlets must be installed such that no point is more
 	than 24" (nec) (900 mm cec) from an outlet.  every counter wider
 	than 12" (nec) or 300 mm (cec) must have at least one outlet.
 	the circuit these outlets are on may not feed any outlets except
 	in the kitchen, pantry, or dining room.  furthermore, these circuits
 	are in addition to any required for refrigerators, stoves, microwaves,
 	lighting, etc.  non-dedicated outlets within 6' of a sink *must* be
 	protected by a gfci (nec only).
 
 	split duplex receptacles are fed with a 220v circuit.  the tab
 	is broken on the hot side of the outlet, and one hot goes to
 	the upper outlet, and the other hot goes to the lower outlet.
 	the neutral connects to both outlets through one screw.  when
 	"carrying through" to another outlet, the neutral must be
 	pigtailed, such that removing the outlet, or having the neutral
 	connection fall off doesn't cause the neutral to disconnect
 	from downstream outlets.
 
 subject: where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?
 
 	there must be at least one outlet in each bathroom, adjacent to
 	the sink, in addition to any outlet that may be incorporated in
 	the light fixture.  all such outlets *must* be gfci-protected.
 
 subject: what is romex/nm/nmd?  what is bx?  when should i use each?
 
 	romex is a brand name for a type of plastic insulated wire.
 	sometimes called non-metallic sheath.  the formal name is nm.
 	this is suitable for use in dry, protected areas (ie: inside
 	stud walls, on the sides of joists etc.), that are not subject
 	to mechanical damage or excessive heat.  most newer homes are
 	wired almost exclusively with nm wire.  there are several
 	different categories of nm cable.
 
 	bx cable -- technically known as armored cable or "ac" has a
 	flexible aluminum or steel sheath over the conductors and is
 	fairly resistant to damage.
 
 	teck cable is ac with an additional external thermoplastic
 	sheath.
 	
 	protection for cable in concealed locations: where nm or ac cable
 	is run through studs, joists or similar wooden members, the outer
 	surface of the cable must be kept at least 32mm/1.25" (cec & nec)
 	from the edges of the wooden members, or the cable should be protected
 	from mechanical injury.  this latter protection can take the form of
 	metal plates (such as spare outlet box ends) or conduit.
 
 	[note: inspector-permitted practise in canada suggests that armored
 	cable, or flexible conduit can be used as the mechanical protection,
 	but this is technically illegal.]
 
 	additional protection recommendations (these are rules in the
 	canadian codes - they are reasonable answers to the vague
 	references to "exposed to mechanical damage" in both the nec
 	and cec):
 
 	    - nm cable should be protected against mechanical damage
 	      where it passes through floors or on the surface of walls
 	      in exposed locations under 5 feet from the floor.
 	      ie: use ac instead, flexible conduit, wooden guards etc.
 	    - where cable is suspended, as in, connections to furnaces
 	      or water heaters, the wire should be protected.  canadian
 	      practise is usually to install a junction or outlet
 	      box on the wall, and use a short length of ac cable
 	      or nm cable in flexible conduit to "jump" to the appliance.
 	      stapling nm to a piece of lumber is also sometimes used.
 	    - where nm cable is run in close proximity to heating
 	      ducts or pipe, heat transfer should be minimized by
 	      means of a 25mm/1" air space, or suitable insulation
 	      material (a wad of fiberglass).
 	    - nm cable shall be supported within 300mm/1' of every box
 	      or fitting, and at intervals of no more than 1.5m/5'.
 	      holes in joists or studs are considered "supports".
 	      some slack in the cable should be provided adjacent to
 	      each box.  [while fishing cable is technically in violation,
 	      it is permitted where "proper" support is impractical]
 	    - 2 conductor nm cable should never be stapled on edge.
 	      [knight also insists on only one cable per staple, referring
 	      to the "workmanship" clause, but this seems more honoured
 	      in the breach...]
 	    - cable should never be buried in plaster, cement or
 	      similar finish.
 	    - cable should be protected where it runs behind baseboards.
 	    - cable may not be run on the upper edge of ceiling joists
 	      or the lower edges of rafters where the headroom is more
 	      than 1m (39").
 
 	whenever bx cable is terminated at a box with a clamp, small
 	plastic bushings must be inserted in the end of the cable to
 	prevent the clamps forcing the sharp ends of the armor through
 	the insulation.
 
 	bx is sometimes a good idea in a work shop unless covered by
 	solid wall coverings.
 
 	in places where damage is more likely (like on the back wall of
 	a garage ;-), you may be required to use conduit, a
 	ul- (or csa-) approved metal pipe.  you use various types of
 	fittings to join the pipe or provide entrance/exit for the
 	wire.
 
 	service entrances frequently use a plastic conduit.
 
 	in damp places (eg: buried wiring to outdoor lighting) you will
 	need special wire (eg: cec nmw90, nec uf).  nmw90 looks like
 	very heavy-duty nmd90.  you will usually need short lengths of
 	conduit where the wire enters/exits the ground.  [see underground
 	wiring section.]
 
  	thermoplastic sheath wire (such as nm, nmw etc.) should not be
  	exposed to direct sunlight unless explicitly approved for that
  	purpose.
 
 	many electrical codes do not permit the routing of wire through
 	furnace ducts, including cold air return plenums constructed
 	by metal sheeting enclosing joist spaces.   the reason for this
 	is that if there's a fire, the ducting will spread toxic gasses
 	from burning insulation very rapidly through the building.
 	teflon insulated wire is permitted in plenums in many areas.
 	
  	canada appears to use similar wire designations to the us,
  	except that canadian wire designations usually include the
  	temperature rating in celsius.  eg: "ac90" versus "ac".
 	in the us, nm-b is 90 degrees celcius.
 
 	note: local codes vary.  this is one of the items that changes
 	most often.  eg: chicago codes require conduit *everywhere*.
 	there are very different requirements for mobile homes.
 	check your local codes, *especially* if you're doing anything
 	that's the slightest out of the ordinary.
 
 	wire selection table (incomplete - the real tables are enormous,
 	uncommon wire types or applications omitted)
 
 	condition			type	cec	nec
 
 	exposed/concealed dry		plastic	nmd90	nm
 					armor	ac90	ac
 						teck90
 
 	exposed/concealed damp		plastic	nmd90	nmc
 					armor	acwu90
 						teck90
 
 	exposed/concealed wet		plastic	nmwu90
 					armor	acwu90
 						teck90
 	
 	exposed to weather		plastic	nmwu
 						tw etc.
 					armor	teck90
 	
 	direct earth burial/		plastic	nmwu*	uf
 	service entrance			rwu
 						twu
 					armor	ra90
 						teck90
 						acwu90
 	[* nmwu not for service entrance]
 
 subject: should i use plastic or metal boxes?
 
 	the nec permits use of plastic boxes with non-metallic cable
 	only.  the reasoning is simple -- with armored cable, the box
 	itself provides ground conductor continuity.  u.s. plastic
 	boxes don't use metal cable clamps.
 
 	the cec is slightly different.  the cec never permits cable
 	armor as a grounding conductor.  however, you must still
 	provide ground continuity for metallic sheath.  the cec also
 	requires grounding of any metal cable clamps on plastic boxes.
 
 	the advantage of plastic boxes is comparatively minor even for
 	non-metallic sheathed cable -- you can avoid making one ground
 	connection and they sometimes cost a little less.  on the other
 	hand, plastic boxes are more vulnerable to impacts.  for
 	exposed or shop wiring, metal boxes are probably better.
 
 subject: junction box positioning?
 
 	a junction box is a box used only for connecting wires together.
 
 	junction boxes must be located in such a way that they're accessible
 	later.  ie: not buried under plaster.  excessive use of junction
 	boxes is often a sign of sloppy installation, and inspectors may
 	get nasty.
 
 subject: can i install a replacement light fixture?
 
 	in general, one can replace fixtures freely, subject to a few
 	caveats.  first, of course, one should check the amperage
 	rating of the circuit.  if your heart is set on installing half
 	a dozen 500 watt floodlights, you may need to run a new wire
 	back to the panel box.  but there are some more subtle
 	constraints as well.  for example, older house
 	wiring doesn't have high-temperature insulation.  the excess
 	heat generated by a ceiling-mounted lamp can and will cause the
 	insulation to deteriorate and crack, with obvious bad results.
 	some newer fixtures are specifically marked for high
 	temperature wire only.  (you may find, in fact, that your
 	ceiling wiring already has this problem, in which case
 	replacing any devices is a real adventure.)
 
 	other concerns include providing a suitable ground for some
 	fluorescent fixtures, and making sure that the ceiling box and
 	its mounting are strong enough to support the weight of a heavy
 	chandelier or ceiling fan.  you may need to install a new box
 	specifically listed for this purpose.  a 2x4 across the ceiling
 	joists makes a good support.  metal brackets are also available
 	that can be fished into ceilings thru the junction box hole and
 	mounted between the joists.
 
 	there are special rules for recessed light fixtures such as
 	"pot" lamps or heat lamps.  when these are installed in insulated
 	ceilings, they can present a very substantial fire hazard.
 	the cec provides for the installation of pot lamps in insulated
 	ceilings, provided that the fixture is boxed in a "coffin" (usually
 	8'x16"x12" - made by making a pair of joists 12" high, and covering
 	with plywood) that doesn't have any insulation.  (yes, that's 8 *feet*
 	long)
 
 	nec rules are somewhat less stringent.  they require at least 3"
 	clearance between the fixture and any sort of thermal insulation.
 	the rules also say that one should not obstruct free air movement,
 	which means that a cec-style ``coffin'' might be worthwhile.
 	presumably, that's up to the local inspector.  [the cec doesn't
 	actually mandate the coffin per-se, this seems to be an inspector
 	requirement to make absolutely certain that the fixture can't get
 	accidentally buried in insulation.  ie: if you have insulation blown
 	in later.]
 
 	there are now fixtures that contain integral thermal cutouts and
 	fairly large cases that can be buried directly in insulation.  they are
 	usually limited to 75 watt bulbs, and are unfortunately, somewhat
 	more expensive than the older types.  before you use them, you should
 	ensure that they have explicit ul or csa approval for such uses.
 	follow the installation instructions carefully; the prescribed location
 	for the sensor can vary.
 
 	there does not yet appear to be a heat lamp fixture that is approved
 	for use in insulation.  the "coffin" appears the only legal approach.
 
 subject: what does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?
 
 	this usually means that the neutral wire in the panel is
 	loose.  depending on the load balance, one hot wire may end up
 	being more than 110v, and the other less than 110v, with
 	respect to ground.  this is a very hazardous situation - it can
 	destroy your electronic equipment, possibly start fires, and in
 	some situations electrocute you (ie: some us jurisdictions
 	require the stove frame connected to neutral).
 
 	if this happens, contact your electrical authority immediately
 	and have them come and check out the problem.
 
 	note: a brief (< 1 second) brightening is sometimes normal with
 	lighting and motors on the same 220v with neutral circuit.  a
 	loose main panel neutral will usually show increased brightness
 	far longer than one second.  in case of doubt, get help.
 
 subject: what is 3 phase power?  should i use it?  can i get it in my house?
 
 	three phase power has three "hot" wires, 120 degrees out of
 	phase with each other.  these are usually used for large motors
 	because it is more "efficient", provides a bit more starting torque,
 	and because the motors are simpler and hence cheaper.
 
 	you're most likely to encounter a 3 phase circuit that shows
 	110 volts between any hot and ground, and 208 volts between
 	any two hots.  the latter shows the difference between a normal
 	220v/110v common neutral circuit, which is 240 volts between the
 	two hots.  there are 3 phase circuits with different voltages.
 
 	bringing in a 3 phase feed to your house is usually
 	ridiculously expensive, or impossible.  if the equipment you
 	want to run has a standard motor mount, it is *much* cheaper to
 	buy a new 110v or 220v motor for it.  in some cases it is
 	possible to run 3 phase equipment on ordinary power if you have
 	a "capacitor start" unit, or use a larger motor as a
 	(auto-)generator.  these are tricky, but are a good solution if
 	the motor is non-standard size, or too expensive or too big to
 	replace.  the taunton press book ``the small shop'' has an
 	article on how to do this if you must.
 
 	note that you lose any possible electrical efficiency by using
 	such a converter.  the laws of thermodynamics guarantee that.
 
 subject: is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?
 
 	theoretically, it doesn't make any difference.  however, there
 	is a difference is the amount of power lost in the supply
 	wiring.  all things being equal, a 220v motor will lose 4 times
 	less power in the house wiring than a 110v motor.  this also
 	means that the startup surge loss will be less, and the motor
 	will get to speed quicker.  and in some circumstances, the
 	smaller power loss will lead to longer motor life.
 
 	this is usually irrelevant unless the supply wires are more
 	than 50 feet long.
 
 subject: what is this nonsense about 3hp on 110v 15a circuits?
 
 	it is a universal physical law that 1 hp is equal to 746
 	watts.  given heating loss, power factor and other inefficiencies,
 	it is usually best to consider 1 hp is going to need 1000-1200
 	watts.  a 110v 15a circuit can only deliver 1850 watts to a motor,
 	so it cannot possibly be more than approximately 2 hp.  given rational
 	efficiency factors, 1.5hp is more like it.
 
 	some equipment manufacturers (sears in particular, most router
 	manufacturers in general ;-) advertise a hp rating that is far
 	in excess of what is possible.  they are giving you a "stall
 	horsepower" or similar.  that means the power is measured when
 	the motor is just about to stop turning because of the load.
 	what they don't mention is that if you kept it in that
 	condition for more than a few seconds hopefully your breaker
 	will trip, otherwise the motor will melt -- it's drawing far
 	more current than it can continuously.
 
 	when comparing motors, compare the continuous horsepower.  this
 	should be on the motor nameplate.  if you can't find that figure,
 	check the amperage rating, which is always present.
 
 subject: how do i convert two prong receptacles to three prong?
 
 	older homes frequently have two-prong receptacles instead
 	of the more modern three.  these receptacles have no safety
 	ground, and the cabling usually has no ground wire.  neither
 	the nec or cec permits installing new 2 prong receptacles anymore.
 
 	there are several different approaches to solving this:
 	    1) if the wiring is done through conduit or bx, and the
 	       conduit is continuous back to the panel, you can connect
 	       the third prong of a new receptacle to the receptacle
 	       box.  nec mainly - cec frowns on this practise.
 	    2) if there is a copper cold water pipe going nearby, and
 	       it's continuous to the main house ground point, you can
 	       run a conductor to it from the third prong.
 	    3) run a ground conductor back to the main panel.
 	    4) easiest: install a gfci receptacle.  the ground lug
 	       should not be connected to anything, but the gfci
 	       protection itself will serve instead.  the gfci
 	       will also protect downstream (possibly also two prong
 	       outlets).  if you do this to protect downstream outlets,
 	       the grounds must not be connected together.  since it
 	       wouldn't be connected to a real ground, a wiring fault
 	       could energize the cases of 3 prong devices connected
 	       to other outlets.  be sure, though, that there aren't
 	       indirect ground plug connections, such as via the sheath
 	       on bx cable.
 
 	the cec permits you to replace a two prong receptacle with a three
 	prong if you fill the u ground with a non-conducting goop.
 	like caulking compound.  this is not permitted in the nec.
 
 subject: are you sure about gfcis and ungrounded outlets?
 	should the test button work?
 
 	we're sure about what the nec and cec say.  remember, though,
 	that your local codes may vary.  as for the test button -- there's
 	a resistor connecting the load side of the hot wire to the line
 	side of the neutral wire when you press the test button.  current
 	through this resistor shows up as an imbalance, and trips the gfci.
 	this is a simple, passive, and reliable test, and doesn't require
 	a real ground to work.  if your gfci does not trip when you press
 	the test button, it is very probably defective or miswired.  again:
 	if the test button doesn't work, something's broken, and potentially
 	dangerous.  the problem should be corrected immediately.
 
 	the instructions that come with some gfcis specify that the ground
 	wire must be connected.  we do not know why they say this.  the
 	causes may be as mundane as an old instruction sheet, or with the
 	formalities of ul or csa listing -- perhaps the device was never
 	tested without the ground wire being connected.  on the other hand,
 	ul or csa approval should only have been granted if the device
 	behaves properly in *all* listed applications, including ungrounded
 	outlet replacement.  (one of us called leviton; their gfcis are
 	labeled for installation on grounded circuits only.  the technician
 	was surprised to see that; he agreed that the nec does not require
 	it, and promised to investigate.)
 
 subject: how should i wire my shop?
 
 	as with any other kind of wiring, you need enough power for all
 	devices that will be on simultaneously.  the code specifies
 	that you should stay under 80% of the nominal capacity of the
 	circuit.  for typical home shop use, this means one circuit for
 	the major power tools, and possibly one for a dust collector or
 	shop vac.  use at least 12 gauge wire -- many power tools have
 	big motors, with a big start-up surge.  if you can, use 20 amp
 	breakers (nec), though cec requires standard 20a receptacles
 	which means you'd have to "replug" all your equipment.  lights
 	should either be on a circuit of their own -- and not shared
 	with circuits in the rest of the house -- or be on at least two
 	separate circuits.  the idea is that you want to avoid a
 	situation where a blade is still spinning at several thousand
 	rpm, while you're groping in the dark for the off switch.
 
 	do install lots of outlets.  it's easier to install them in the
 	beginning, when you don't have to cut into an existing cable.
 	it's useful if at least two circuits are accessible at each
 	point, so you can run a shop vac or a compressor at the same
 	time as the tool you really want.  but use metal boxes and
 	plates, and maybe even metal-sheathed cable; you may have
 	objects flying around at high speeds if something goes a bit
 	wrong.
 
 	note that some jurisdictions have a "no horizontal wiring"
 	rule in workshops or other unfinished areas that are used
 	for working.  what this means is that all wiring must be
 	run along structural members.  ie: stapled to studs.
 
 	other possible shop circuits include heater circuits, 220v
 	circuits for some large tools, and air compressor circuits.
 	don't overload circuits, and don't use extension cords if you
 	can help it, unless they're rated for high currents.  (a coiled
 	extension cord is not as safe as a straight length of wire of
 	the same gauge.  also, the insulation won't withstand as much
 	heat, and heat dissipation is the critical issue.)
 
 	if your shop is located at some remove from your main panel,
 	you should probably install a subpanel, and derive your shop
 	wiring from it.  if you have young children, you may want to
 	equip this panel with a cut-off switch, and possibly a lock.
 	if you want to install individual switches to ``safe''
 	particular circuits, make sure you get ones rated high enough.
 	for example, ordinary light switches are not safely able to
 	handle the start-up surge generated by a table saw.  buy
 	``horsepower-rated'' switches instead.
 
 	finally, note that most home shops are in garages or unfinished
 	basements; hence the nec requirements for gfcis apply.  and
 	even if you ``know'' that you'd never use one of your shop
 	outlets to run a lawn mower, the next owner of your house might
 	have a different idea.
 
 	note: fine woodworking magazine often carries articles on shop
 	wiring.  april 1992 is one place to start.
 
 subject: underground wiring
 
 	you will need to prepare a trench to specifications, use
 	special wire, protect the wire with conduit or special plastic
 	tubing and possibly lumber (don't use creosoted lumber, it rots
 	thermoplastic insulation and acts as a catalyst in the corrosion
 	of lead).  the transition from in-house to underground wire is
 	generally via conduit.  all outdoor boxes must be specifically
 	listed for the purpose, and contain the appropriate gaskets,
 	fittings, etc.  if the location of the box is subject to immersion
 	in water, a more serious style of water-proof box is needed.  and
 	of course, don't forget the gfcis.
 
 	the required depths and other details vary from jurisdiction to
 	jurisdiction, so we suggest you consult your inspector about
 	your specific situation.
 
 	a hint: buy a roll of bright yellow tape that says "buried power
 	line" and bury it a few inches above where the wire has been placed.
 
 subject: aluminum wiring
 
 	during the 1970's, aluminum (instead of copper) wiring became
 	quite popular and was extensively used.  since that time,
 	aluminum wiring has been implicated in a number of house fires,
 	and most jurisdictions no longer permit it in new installations.
 	we recommend, even if you're allowed to, that do not use it for new
 	wiring.
 
 	but don't panic if your house has aluminum wiring.  aluminum
 	wiring, when properly installed, can be just as safe as copper.
 	aluminum wiring is, however, very unforgiving of improper
 	installation.  we will cover a bit of the theory behind potential
 	problems, and what you can do to make your wiring safe.
 
 	the main problem with aluminum wiring is a phenomenon known as
 	"cold creep".  when aluminum wiring warms up, it expands.  when
 	it cools down, it contracts.  unlike copper, when aluminum goes
 	through a number of warm/cool cycles it loses a bit of tightness each
 	time.  to make the problem worse, aluminum oxidises, or corrodes
 	when in contact with certain types of metal, so the resistance
 	of the connection goes up.  which causes it to heat up and corrode/
 	oxidize still more.  eventually the wire may start getting very hot,
 	melt the insulation or fixture it's attached to, and possibly even
 	cause a fire.
 
 	since people usually encounter aluminum wiring when they move
 	into a house built during the 70's, we will cover basic points of
 	safe aluminum wiring.  we suggest that, if you're considering purchasing
 	a home with aluminum wiring, or have discovered it later, that you
 	hire a licensed electrician or inspector to check over the wiring
 	for the following things:
 
 	    1) fixtures (eg: outlets and switches) directly attached to
 	       aluminum wiring should be rated for it.  the device will
 	       be stamped with "al/cu" or "co/alr".  the latter supersedes
 	       the former, but both are safe.   these fixtures are somewhat
 	       more expensive than the ordinary ones.
 
 	    2) wires should be properly connected (at least 3/4 way around
 	       the screw in a clockwise direction).  connections should be
 	       tight.  while repeated tightening of the screws can make the
 	       problem worse, during the inspection it would pay off to snug
 	       up each connection.
 
 	       note that aluminum wiring is still often used for the
 	       main service entrance cable.  it should be inspected.
 
 	    3) "push-in" terminals are an extreme hazard with aluminum wire.
 	       any connections using push-in terminals should be redone with
 	       the proper screw connections immediately.
 
 	    4) there should be no signs of overheating: darkened connections,
 	       melted insulation, or "baked" fixtures.  any such damage should
 	       be repaired.
 	    
 	    5) connections between aluminum and copper wire need to be
 	       handled specially.  current canadian codes require that the
 	       wire nut used must be specially marked for connecting
 	       aluminum to copper.  the nec requires that the wire be
 	       connected together using special crimp devices, with an
 	       anti-oxidant grease.  the tools and materials for the latter
 	       are quite expensive - not practical to do it yourself unless
 	       you can rent the tool.
 
 	    6) any non-rated receptacle can be connected to aluminum wiring
 	       by means of a short copper "pigtail".  see (5) above.
 	    
 	    7) shows reasonable workmanship: neat wiring, properly stripped
 	       (not nicked) wire etc.
     
 	if, when considering purchasing a home, an inspection of the wiring
 	shows no problems or only one or two, we believe that you can consider
 	the wiring safe.  if there are signs of problems in many places,
 	we suggest you look elsewhere.  if the wrong receptacles are used,
 	you can replace them with the proper type, or use pigtails - having
 	this professionally done can range from $3 to $10 per receptacle/switch.
 	you can do this yourself too.
 
 subject: i'm buying a house!  what should i do?
 
 	congratulations.  but...  it's generally a good idea to hire
 	an inspector to look through the house for hidden gotchas.
 	not just for wiring, but plumbing and structural as well.  if an
 	inspection of the wiring shows no problems or only one or two minor
 	ones, we believe that you can consider the wiring safe (after any
 	minor problems are fixed).  if there are signs of problems in many
 	places, we suggest you look elsewhere.
 
 	here's some hints on what to look for:
 
 	obvious non-code wiring can include:
 
 		- zip cord wiring, either concealed or nailed to walls
 		- hot wiring on the identified (neutral) conductor without
 		  proper marking.
 		- ungrounded grounding outlets (except when downstream of
 		  a gfci)
 		- splices hanging in mid-air (other than proper knob-and-tube)
 		- switched neutrals
 		- unsecured romex swinging about like grapevines
 
 	certain wiring practises that are actually to code (or were at one
 	time) sometimes reveal diy wiring that may have hidden violations:
 
 		- switches that seem to control nothing (abandoned, perhaps
 		   not properly terminated wiring)
 		- a wall switch that shuts off a group of lights that are
 		  separately controlled by other wall switches.  (except when
 		  it's *really* convenient ;-)
 		- switches and outlets in bizarre locations
 		- great numbers of junction boxes without outlets or lamps
 		- junction boxes with great numbers of wires going into them
 		- wiring that passes through a closet instead of a wall or
 		  ceiling
 		- backwrapped grounding wires
 
 subject: what is this weird stuff?  old style wiring
 	
 	in the years since edison "invented" electricity, several different
 	wiring "styles" have come and gone.  when you buy an older home you
 	may encounter some of this stuff.  this section describes the old 
 	methods, and some of their idiosyncrasies.
 
 	the oldest wiring system you're likely to encounter is called
 	"knob and tube" (k&t).  it is made up of individual conductors with
 	a cloth insulation.  the wires are run along side structural
 	members (eg: joists or studs) using ceramic stand-offs (knobs).
 	wire is run through structural members using ceramic tubes.  connections
 	were made by twisting the wire together, soldering, and wrapping
 	with tape.  since the hot and neutral were run separately,
 	the wiring tends to be rather confusing.  a neutral often runs
 	down the centre of each room, with "taps" off to each fixture.
 	the hot wire tended to run from one fixture to the next.  in some
 	cases k&t isn't colour-coded, so the neutral is often the same
 	colour as the hot wires.
 
 	you'll see k&t in homes built as late as the 40's.
 
 	comments on k&t:
 
 		- the people installing k&t were pretty paranoid about
 		  electricity, so the workmanship tends to be pretty good.
 		- the wire, insulation and insulators tend to stand up
 		  very well.  most k&t i've seen, for example, is in
 		  quite good condition.
 		- no grounding.  grounding is usually difficult to install.
 		- boxes are small.  receptacle replacement (particularly with
 		  gfci) can be difficult.  no bushing on boxes either,
 		  so wiring changes need special attention to box entry.
 		- sometimes the neutral isn't balanced very well between
 		  separately hot circuits, so it is sometimes possible to
 		  overload the neutral without exceeding the fusing on
 		  any circuit.
 		- building code does not permit insulation in walls
 		  that contain k&t.
 		- connection to existing k&t from new circuits can be
 		  tricky.  consult your inspector.
 		- modern wiring practise requires considerably more
 		  outlets to be installed than k&t systems did.
 	
 	since k&t tends to be in pretty decent condition it generally isn't
 	necessary to replace it simply because it's k&t.  what you should
 	watch out for is renovations that have interfered with it and
 	be cautious about circuit loading.  in many cases it's perfectly
 	reasonable to leave existing k&t alone, and add new fixtures on
 	new circuits using modern techniques.
 	
 	after k&t, they invented multi-conductor cable.  the first type
 	you will see is roughly a cloth and varnish insulation.  it looks
 	much like the romex cable of the last decade or two.  this stuff was
 	used in the 40's and 50's.  again, no grounding conductor.
 	it was installed much like modern wiring.  its major drawback
 	is that this type of insulation embrittles.  we've seen whole
 	systems where the insulation would fracture and fall off at
 	a touch.  bx cable of the same vintage has similar problems.
 
 	this stuff is very fragile, and becomes rather hazardous if
 	the wires become bare.  this wiring should be left untouched as
 	much as possible - whenever an opportunity arises, replace it.
 	a simple receptacle or switch replacement can turn into a several
 	hour long frustrating fight with electrical tape or heat-shrink
 	tubing.
 
 	after this wiring technique, the more modern romex was invented.
 	it's almost a asphalt impregnated cloth.  often a bit sticky.
 	this stuff stands up reasonably well and doesn't present a hazard
 	and is reasonably easy to work with.  it does not need to be
 	replaced - it should be considered as safe as the "modern" stuff -
 	thermoplastic insulation wire.  just don't abuse it too much.
 
 subject: where do i buy stuff?
 
 	try to find a proper electrical supply outlet near you.  their
 	prices will often be considerably better than chain hardware stores or
 	diy centres, have better quality materials, have wider variety
 	including the "odd" stuff, and have people behind the counter that
 	know what you're talking about.  cultivate friendly knowledgeable
 	sales people.  they'll give you much valuable information.
 -- 
 chris lewis; clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca; phone: canada 613 832-0541
 psroff 3.0 info: psroff-request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
 ferret list: ferret-request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
 