
 in article <1993apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu>, crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (russ crisp) writes:
 > i'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home, and
 > i need a little advice on outlet wiring.  several outlets
 > are the old 'two prong' type, without the ground.  naturally,
 > the wire feeding these outlets is 12/2, without the ground
 > wire.  i noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the
 > 12/2 with ground, and that on these circuits, the ground
 > wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.
 > 
 > so..  here's my question.  it seems to me that i'd have the
 > same electrical circuit if i hooked the jumper from the neutral
 > over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.
 > what's wrong with my reasoning here?  
 
 no.  no.  nooo!!!
 
 the ground (green) wire is for safety.  no current is supposed to flow in it
 under normal conditions.  this means that there's normally no voltage drop in
 it either.  it is supposed to be safe to touch the ground wire... even if
 you're grounded in some other way at the same time.  
 
 the neutral (white) wire is, as dave vanderbyl correctly said, the return for
 the hot wire.  since current flows in it, there's a voltage drop.  if you
 plug a heavy load into a properly-wired grounded outlet, you can commonly 
 measure a volt or so of difference between neutral and ground.  
 
 they are supposed to be connected together at the breaker panel... but nowhere,
 repeat nowhere, else.  (well, almost.  there are strange exceptions for things
 like sub-panels.)
 
 what you can do if you want three-prong outlets without additional wiring is 
 to use a gfci outlet (or breaker, but the outlet will be cheaper).  in fact,
 depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s), a gfci may be *required*.
 
 there is a faq on electrical wiring, posted regularly to rec.woodworking and
 news.answers.  it goes into great detail on these issues (including gfcis) and
 you should probably read it before asking any more questions.  i'll mail a copy
 to you, append a copy here, and will ask the writers to cross-post it here in
 the future. 
 
 	--- jamie hanrahan, kernel mode systems, san diego ca
 internet:  jeh@cmkrnl.com  uucp: uunet!cmkrnl!jeh  cis: 74140,2055
 
 