
 in article <1qhrq9innlri@crcnis1.unl.edu> mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul) writes:
 >ok, what's a quick rundown on all the 7400 series variations?  we're
 >repairing something with a 74act00 on it and the question arises, "well,
 >do  i really need the act part?"  flipping through digi-key i see 
 >als, as, c, hc, ac, acq, act, hct, acht, hctls...
 
 here's something i posted about this a few years ago.  it's not fully
 up to date with all the new variations (some of which are just different
 manufacturer's synonyms):
 
 ------
 in practical terms, ignoring the technological details, this is my view
 of the families (nb i am not a giant corporation, which influences my
 views on things like availability and backward compatibility):
 
 74	the original.  speed good, power consumption fair.  effectively
 	obsolete now; use 74ls or later, except for a *very* few oddball
 	functions like 7407 which are hard to find in newer families.
 
 74h	modification of 74 for higher speed, at the cost of higher
 	power consumption.  very obsolete; use 74f.
 
 74l	modification of 74 for lower power, at the cost of lower speed.
 	very obsolete; use cmos.
 
 74s	later modification of 74 for even higher speed, at some cost in
 	power consumption.  effectively obsolete; use 74f.
 
 74ls	combination of 74l and 74s, for speed comparable to 74 with lower
 	power consumption.  best all-round ttl now, widest variety of
 	devices.
 
 74f	fast as blazes, power not too bad.  the clear choice for high
 	speed in ttl.  availability and prices generally good.
 
 74as	failed competitor to 74f, although a few 74as parts do things
 	that are hard to find in 74f and thus are still useful.
 
 74als	possible replacement for 74ls.  generally souped up.  still fairly
 	new, availability and prices possibly a problem.
 
 74c	fairly old family, cmos devices with ttl pinouts.  competed with
 	4000 series, not too successfully.  obsolete; use 4000 or newer
 	cmos 74 families.
 
 4000	(thrown in as the major non-74 non-ecl logic family.)  the old cmos
 	family, still viable because of *very* wide range of devices, low
 	power consumption, and wide range of supply voltages.  not fast.
 	very forgiving and easy to work with (beware static electricity,
 	but that comment applies to many other modern logic families too).
 	there are neat devices in this family that exist in no other.  the
 	clear choice when speed is not important.
 
 74hc	a new attempt at 74-pinout cmos.  fast compared to old cmos, power
 	consumption often lower than ttl.  possibly a good choice for
 	general-purpose logic, assuming availability and affordability.
 	cmos logic levels, *not* ttl ones.  beware very limited range of
 	supply voltages compared to older cmos, also major rise of power
 	consumption at faster speeds.
 
 74hct	74hc with ttl logic levels.  much the same comments as 74hc.  read
 	the fine print on things like power consumption -- ttl compatibility
 	in cmos involves some compromises.
 
 10k	(thrown in for speed freaks.)  the low end of ecl.  various sources
 	claim that it is *easier* to work with than super-fast ttl for
 	serious high-speed work.  less forgiving, though:  read and follow
 	the rules or it won't work.  availability to hobbyists limited,
 	can be expensive.
 
 100k	(for real speed freaks.)  hot ecl.  harder to handle than 10k, and
 	inconvenient packages.  much more useful datasheets, however.
 
 as for compatibility between families:  the 74 families (except 74c and
 74hc) are all more or less logic-level compatible, but how many 74x devices
 you can drive from one 74y output varies enormously with x and y.  you just
 have to read the specs and do the arithmetic.  74c and 74hc are compatible
 with the others with a bit of hassle.  4000 compatibility can be a bit of
 hassle or a lot of hassle depending on what supply voltage 4000 is using.
 10k or 100k to anything else is considerable hassle.
 
 me?  i use 4000 and 74ls with a sprinkling of 74f.  74hc[t] and 10k are
 interesting but i haven't used either significantly yet.
 -- 
 all work is one man's work.             | henry spencer @ u of toronto zoology
                     - kipling           |  henry@zoo.toronto.edu  utzoo!henry
 