
 nagle@netcom.com (john nagle) writes:
 
 >>great explaination, however you left off one detail, why do you always
 >>see them at nuclear plants, but not always at fossil fuel plants.  at
 >>nuclear plants it is prefered to run the water closed cycle, whereas
 >>fossil fuel plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot
 >>water.  as i recall the water isn't as hot (thermodynamically) in many
 >>fossil fuel plants, and of course there is less danger of radioactive
 >>contamination.
 
 actually the reasons you don't see so many cooling towers at fossil plants are
 1) fossil units (multiple units per plant) are generally smaller than
 nuclear plants.  300 mwe seemed to be a very popular size when many
 fossil plants were built.  the average nuclear plant is 1000 mwe.  2) many
 fossil plants were grandfathered when water discharge regulations were
 adopted ("why those old dirt burners can't harm anything, let 'em go.").  
 3) powered draft cooling towers, low enough to the ground to be generally
 not visible from off-site, are quite popular with fossil plants.  4) fossil
 plants used to get much less regulatory attention than nuclears.
 
 >       actually, fossil fuel plants run hotter than the usual 
 >boiling-water reactor nuclear plants.  (there's a gripe in the industry
 >that nuclear power uses 1900 vintage steam technology).  so it's
 >more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system
 >as cold as possible.  hence big cooling towers.  
 
 >       oil and gas fired steam plants also have condensers, but they
 >usually are sized to get the steam back into hot water, not most of the
 >way down to ambient.  some plants do cool the condensers with water,
 >rather than air; as one canadian official, asked about "thermal 
 >pollution" de-icing a river, said, "up here, we view heat as a resource".  
 
 actually the condensing environment is essentially the same for plants
 of similar size.  the issues are the same regardless of where the 
 heat comes from.  condensers are run at as high a vacuum as possible in
 order to reduce aerodynamic drag on the turbine.  the condenser pressure is
 normally water's vapor pressure at the condensing temperature.  it is
 desirable that the steam exhaust be free of water droplets because 
 moisture in the steam causes severe erosion damage to the turbine 
 low pressure blades and because entrained water moving at high velocity
 causes erosion of the condenser tubes.  the coldest and thus lowest
 pressure condensing environment is always the best.  
 
 a related issue is that of pumping the condensate from the hotwell (where
 the water ends up after dripping off the condenser tubes.)  since the
 condenser is at a very low pressure, the only force driving the 
 condensate into the hotwell pumps is gravity.  if the condensate is too 
 hot or the gravity head is too low, the condensate will reflash into
 steam bubbles and cause the condensate pumps to cavitate.  this is a
 particularly destructive form of cavitation that is to be avoided at all
 costs.  
 
 the hotwell pumps are located in the lowest point in the plant
 in order to provide a gravity head to the pumps.  how much lower 
 they must be is a function of how hot the water is allowed to get in
 the hotwell.  typically hotwell temperatures run between 100 and 120 
 degrees depending on the temperature of the river water (this term is
 used to describe the river grade water even when the cooling tower
 system is operating in closed loop mode and essentially no river water
 is pumped.)  when the river water temperature is high in the summer,
 operators will typically allow the hotwell level to rise in order 
 to provide more gravity head.  there is a tradeoff involved since higher
 hotwell levels will encroach onto the condensing tubes and reduce the
 condenser area.
 
 at least in the east and elsewhere where moisture actually exists in the
 air :-), the river water will almost always be cooler than the discharge
 water from the cooling towers.  the temperature of the discharge water
 from the cooling towers is set by the ambient air temperature and
 humidity.  it is very rare in the east to hear of actual river water
 temperatures exceeding 70 degrees.  a vast difference from the typical
 "95-95" days (95 degrees, 95% humidity) we see routinely in the east.
 it is not unusual, particularly where the econazis have been successful
 in clamping rigid discharge water temperature limits on a plant, for the
 plant to have to reduce the firing rate when the air temperature gets
 too high and the condenser cannot handle the heat load without excessive
 pressure.
 
 >       everybody runs closed-cycle boilers.  the water used is 
 >purified of solids, which otherwise crud up the boiler plumbing when
 >the water boils.  purifying water for boiler use is a bigger job than 
 >cooling it, so the boiler water is recycled.
 
 true.  actually secondary plant (the part that makes electricity and
 feeds feedwater to the boiler) water chemistry has been the bastard 
 stepchild until recently and has not gotten the respect it deserves.
 the plant chemists have just in the past decade or so fully understood
 the costs of impure water.  by "impure", i mean water with a few
 dozen extra micromho of conductivity and/or a few ppm of dissolved
 oxygen.  secondary water is now typically the most pure one will 
 find outside the laboratory.
 
 john
 -- 
 john de armond, wd4oqc               |interested in high performance mobility?  
 performance engineering magazine(tm) | interested in high tech and computers? 
 marietta, ga                         | send ur snail-mail address to 
 jgd@dixie.com                        | perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
 lee harvey oswald: where are ya when we need ya?
 