
 in article <1qpj5t$itg@vela.acs.oakland.edu>, eabyrnes@vela.acs.oakland.edu
 (ed byrnes) wrote:
 > 
 > my monitor display has a bad case of the wigglies. i have a good ground. i
 > live in an old house and i have replaced much of the wiring. i have two
 > emi filters on the computer, the monitor plugs into the computer. when
 > fluorescent lights are on upstairs, the display jiggles, when motors run
 > in the house, the display jiggles, when incandescent lights are on in the
 > kitchen the display jiggles.  i could bring a separate line from the
 > breaker box, and use it only for the computer, would this do it? emi
 > doesn't only travel the 110 volt line though. should i shield the back of
 > the monitor? ground a grid or plate? 
 > your expertise is appreciated. thanks very much!  ed byrnes
 
 
 aaahh... a problem very near and dear to my heart. in our case, other
 monitors cause this problem - the deflection coil of other monitors to be
 specific. have also seen a monitor backed up to a fuse panel exhibit this
 problem. this sounds like your problem since flourescent lites, motors, etc
 several 10s of feet away seem to me to be too far to cause it, but the
 juice running to them must pass nearby your monitor. fusebox on other side
 of wall maybe?
 we started spec'ing panasonic ct-1331y video monitors (3 switchable input
 lines(vid & aud) s-vhs on one) <$400. this stopped the wavy interference
 effect on the computer monitor next to it. 
 now on to your problem. you need what is known as mu shielding (very
 common, in fact almost mandatory on electrostatic deflection type
 o'scopes).
 i talked to a ee prof. he said get a coffee can, cut both ends off, mount
 around deflection coil of interfering monitor. 
 be careful to avoid all high voltage circuitry. especially the thicker high
 voltage anode lead usually colored red. if you kill yourself, don't
 blame/sue me!!! use plastic or other non-conducting stand-offs and such to
 mount can.
 now, i would assume that what is good for keeping mag fields in is also
 good at keeping them out, so hopefully this'll work by mounting shield on
 monitor being interfered with as well. if not, start shielding those other
 sources.
 
 jeff babb
 babb@sciences.sdsu.edu   babb@ucssun1.sdsu.edu
 programmer, sdsu - larc
 