
 in article <randall.735251839@woof> randall@informix.com (randall rhea) writes:
 
    gstovall@crchh67.nosubdomain.nodomain (greg stovall) writes:
    >anyway, over the weekend, i was resting on the sofa (in between chores),
    >and noticed that i briefly picked up what sounded like ham radio traffic
    >over my stereo and television, even though both were off.  also, all the
    >touch sensitive lights in my house start going wacko, cycling through 
    >their four brightness states.
 
    >i presume that some ham operator with an illegal amplifier drove past
    >my house (i live on a busy thoroughfare); would this be a correct presumption?
    >what kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects?  
    >the affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road...
 
 hams are unlikely to have an illegal amp,  and are also unlikely to
 have a "dirty" amp.
 
    hams can legally run up to 1500 watts.  it is very unlikely, however,
    that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car.  ham rigs
 
 not possible either.  you'd need about a 300 amp alternator for
 just the amplifier.  i can just see it.  you need to slow
 down on a downgrade,  so you hit the push to talk button.
 
    for cars put out around 100 watts.  it is possible that a 100 watt
    radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet 
    away.  most tvs, stereos, and vcrs have very poor rf shielding.
    if you experience the problem frequently, it may be 
    caused by a ham, cber, or other radio operator in a base station
    nearby.    the interference may have been caused by a radio 
    transmitter used for other purposes, such as police, fire,
    etc.  if you heard voices over your stereo, i think you are
    correct in assuming that the source is an rf transmitter.
 
    if you have frequent trouble, you may want to try the rf ferrite
    chokes available at radio shack.  the interference is probably
    being picked up by your speaker wires, and those chokes can
    be installed on the wires very easily (without cutting them).
    good instructions are included with the chokes.
    if that does not solve the problem, you may want to search your
    neighborhood for a radio operator.  look for antennas on the roof
    or car.  talk to him/her about your problem.  there are things
    a radio operator can do to reduce interference.
 
 and please remember to be friendly when approaching your
 local radio operator.  this person may or may not be the 
 cause of your troubles,  and you'll get better cooperation
 and help if you assume that he is going to be helpful (most
 are).  it was amazing the accusations that we sometimes
 dealt with as i grew up.  we were blamed for skip (ghost
 pictures on the tv that occur at sunspot peaks),  c.b.
 interferance,  dead grass :),  you name it.  
 
 btw, the local operator should try and help you whether or
 not he or she is directly responsible.  it is part of
 being a good neighbor and that is how the fcc views it.
 too bad they don't require the consumer equipment makers
 to take any precautions.
 
 last, you can usually tell ham radio vs. cb.  ham operators are
 required to declare their call (sign) every so many minutes (no more
 than 10).  so if you hear "this is wa1qt" or some other call starting
 with a, w or k and no more than 6 total characters, you heard a ham.
 cb'ers probably won't sign (i don't know that they're even required
 to) and fire/police have other private ids.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 --
 douglas s. rand <drand@osf.org>		osf/motif dev.
 snail:         11 cambridge center,  cambridge,  ma  02142
 disclaimer:    i don't know if osf agrees with me... let's vote on it.
 amateur radio: kc1kj
 