
 
 help!!  this morning i turned on my computer..to be greated with a popping
 noise from the monitor.  i quickly looked thru the top right vent and to
 my disbelief saw orange flame and smelled smoke!  great...
 i opened it up to see what i could see (it's 4 years old, no warrenty for me).
 on one of the pc boards there was a resistor that had been majorly
 fryed..burnt to a crisp..can't even tell what value it is.  this is the
 only pjhysical damage i can find.  but to my knowledge, resistors don't
 just randomly blow.  what could have happened??  a voltage regulator
 problem..?  the fuses nearby are intact...great job.  i have 2 thoughts as
 to why it did this.  one, over the winter i was ruinning a humidifier for
 about 6 weeks, although it was halfway across the room.  could moisture
 done this?  i last used it over a month ago.  second, as most people
 do...i never use the power switches on the cpu or moinitor.  i have
 everything plugged into a surge protector and i turn the whole shebang on
 with it.  now, is this bad???  should i quit doing it?  is my system
 getting too much power or varrying power this way when activated?
 
 now...before i take it to a repaoir shop i want to replace the resistor to
 see what happens.  but i have no idea what value it is.  or even if that
 would fix things..would it just blow again??  right now, when i plug it in
 and turn it on i don't even get the power led..a power supply prolem??
 should i bother tracking down this resistor value or take it to a shop?? 
 it is resistor r830.  it's near the metal shield that
 shgields..something..near a large black electrolytic capacitor.  it's on
 the right most pc board.  the monitor is an imtec 1455n, from mid-1989.
 does someone have schematics for this?  or would someone be willing to
 take theirs apart and see what value r830 is???  basically, what the hell
 should i do to get this thing fixed for the cheapest amont in the least time.
 
 i have crosposted this article.  please respond via email with any help or
 suggestions.  also, does anyone have imtecs phone or address??  my manual
 lacks either from what i can see.  please respons via email only!!!
 needless to say, with no computer i don't have the leisure of scanning
 groups while bothering my friend to use his computer/modem.
 help..this really bites and i need it working asap!!!
 
 