
 i live in the san francisco bay area, and word has it that
 something similar is on its way here.  since we apparently
 don't have the sensor base you folks have, they're installing
 cameras at strategic points along the freeways (initial tests
 are going to be in the santa clara area i'm told), with the
 video being piped into a command center they're building
 somewhere in the east bay.  i'm not sure if frame grabbers or
 cheap labor will be used to interpret the data, but large
 multi-colored status displays will show the various routes
 using different colors to represent the various average speeds
 for each stretch of highway.  an announcer will sit in front
 of the status 'wall', and will relay continuous verbal traffic
 status to those who want to receive it.  they're apparently also
 looking into licensing a low-am frequency to be dedicated to
 providing continuous audio from this system.
 
 in the mean time, they'll set up large incandescent display
 boards along the test stretch to provide commuters with data
 on traffic conditions up ahead.  my understanding is that the
 system is subsidized as a pilot program, and information from it
 will be available free of charge.  perhaps the la system is
 similarly free or provided at an obviously subsidized rate (read
 "cheap").
 
 we also have the traffic reports that are broadcast on the sap
 audio channel of television channels 2 and 36.  these are verbal
 reports, qualified with a identification tone to tell in-vehicle
 receivers like the 'auto talk' that the information coming next is
 applicable to a given area.  in la, they're probably using some
 other tv channels, but the concept is the same.  try setting your
 stereo tv or vcr to receive the sap audio channel, and go station
 jumping to find out which one is broadcasting this information.
 i believe this program is also subsidized, making the in-vehicle
 receivers cheap to purchase (and without having to incur monthly
 fees to use it).  since the makers of these in-vehicle receivers
 don't have to pay for the broadcast (this may not be completely
 true), they likely have no investment in keeping the system
 up and running when the cal trans stuff hits the airwaves.  you
 may have a nifty little tv audio receiver in your car, nothing
 more, when this happens.  perhaps a word to the wise...?  ;)
 
 i think we'd all be interested in a summary post if you get more
 info on how the la system is networked and paid for.
 
 cheers,
 alan
 <acooney@netcom.com>
 
 