
 in article <c5ulqg.i5@acsu.buffalo.edu> v064mb9k@ubvmsb.cc.buffalo.edu (neil b. gandler) writes:
 >
 >	how does the radio electronics free information cards work.
 >do they just send you some general information about the companies that
 >advertise in their magazine or does it also give you sign you up for a
 >catalog. 
 
 that depends entirely upon the advertiser whose number you circled.
 radio electronics compiles all of the cards, then each advertiser
 gets a computer printout of the names and addresses of all of the readers
 who circled their number. some magazines also provide the data on
 self-adhesive labels, and the really big magazines provide the
 data on computer disk.
 
 the advertiser decides what to do with the data they get. you will
 notice that the radio electronics information card (commonly called
 a "bingo card" in the industry) includes lines for a company name
 and a business phone number. my guess would be that the big, national
 advertisers make a distinction between hobbiests and professionals as
 best they can. for example, if you include motorola as your company
 and include a business phone (and a mail stop), tektronics will probably
 send you a copy of their hard-bound catalog and have a sales engineer
 call you about a week later. if you leave it blank, odds are they
 will send you a slick brochure and direct you to a local retail
 outlet. medium and small companies are more likely to send you th
 e whole catalog. and then some companies, like digikey or jameco, have
 nothing to mail out accept the catalog.
 
 a couple of other interesting points about bingo cards: free, industry
 magazines like edn and such also log your card to their computer. they
 use the information at least three ways. they note that you really do read
 the magazine and are more likely to continue your subscription or push
 you, through repeated mailings, to re-subscribe. they also compile
 how many people requested which data for their marketing demographics.
 this way thay can tell a prospective advertiser that "23% of readers
 requesting data were interested in capacitors." and finally, some
 magazines rent lists of readers who request certain information. for
 example, tektronics can rent a list of everyone who requested information
 about test equipment other than tektronic's, in the past 6 months.
 
 the other point, in the data the advertiser receives, many magazines
 include how many items you circled on the card. if they want, the
 advertiser can attempt to cull out the "literature collectors" from
 the serious potential customers.
 
 "can you say qualified sales leads? i thought you could."
 
 what's the best way for a hobbiest to deal with bingo cards?
 
   never circle more than 8 number on the card. if you want more
   than 8 items, use the second card and mail it a couple of
   weeks later.
 
   if you are really, really serious and you really, really want
   the information, call the advertiser and ask! this will also
   cut about 15 days off the the response time. virtually
   everyone takes a voice on the phone more seriously than data
   on a computer printout.
 
   to help insure you keep getting a trade magazine that you're
   not really "qualified" for, send in a bingo card at least every
   other month and circle two or three numbers.
 
   include a business name and phone number, even if it's your house.
   advertisers almost never call. 
 
 john schuch
   publisher of: the arizona high-tech times
                 the arizona electrical journal
                 the arizona hvac news
   (all of which have bingo cards)
 
 
 