
 kuo-sheng (kasey) chang (kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu) wrote:
 > the program is definitely backupable, if restored to the same machine (depends
 > on the programmer...  don't use a disk drive characteristic!)  if the user 
 > did an upgrade to the machine, he/she should reinstall all programs any way.
 > no document look-up, no disk wear-and-tear!
 
 	this is not a good idea.. i upgraded my motherboard last fall.  i
 would have been quite pissed at any software that would have forced me to
 reinstall simply because i changed motherboards.
 
 	any info in the bios is too volatile to use as a checksum.  are you
 going to require that a user re-install all their software if they add 4mb
 of ram to their computer?  i did that a couple of weeks ago.  it's in the
 bios, and if software had told me "this isn't the machine you installed me
 on" i would never have used that software again.  really bad idea.
 
 > i did not say that the originals would allow only one install.  the user's 
 > conscience should do that.
 
 	this is silly.  it's much easier to loan disks to a friend and let
 them do an install than to backup your copy already on disk, and then give
 them that.  your scheme isn't going to stop anyone.
 
 > you know how many bytes you need to change in x-wing to disable
 > the quiz?  two!  yes, two!  (and don't ask me which ones they are.)
 
 	do you know any assembly language at all?  all anyone needs to do if
 find the part of the code that does the quiz, and insert a jmp instruction
 to just completely skip it.  not that difficult, really!  and there is very
 little that commpanies can do to stop this type of thing.  using pklite or
 some similar utility would help, but only if the resulting compressed .exe
 were tagged as uncompressable.
 
 > what i believe the companies should do is implement the above plus
 > a special patch once the user registers that loudly exclaims upon bootup
 > "registered to xxxxx -- address, city, state zip" and disables the above.
 
 	this is by far the best idea you presented in your post.  making it
 plainly obvious who registered is going to stop casual pirates. but, the
 determined ones are just going to answer "joe blow" to the question of
 "what's your name" so this won't stop them in the long run.
 
 	pirates are always going to win this fight.  they simply have more
 time to work on the software and figure out the protection scheme.
 
 --
 steve madsen
 sjmadsen@nextsrv.cas.muohio.edu
 
 ask me about linux, the free 386 unix!
 