
 in article <cstrockb.93apr23002520@csws8.cs.sunysb.edu>, cstrockb@cs.sunysb.edu (caleb strockbine) writes...
 
 >could make for some interesting choreography... light and sound could be 
 >controlled directly by the position of a dancer on stage, or by the number
 >of dancers on stage. neat.
 > 
 >you could even build a spotlight that follows the dancer around on stage!
 > 
 >can you tell us more about what you're doing? sounds like a very cool program.
 
 tis' only a gleam in my eye at this point.  i have yet to chose a tracking 
 method.  the initial requirement was to design a system to locate a dancer
 in one of eight zones across the stage.  i did some experiments with 
 pyroelectric detectors and found them difficult to align to get a definite
 zone transition.  and dancers stand still alot, so their ir signature goes
 away.  the good thing about pryoelectrics is that their signal is proportional 
 to the size of the warm body (or body part), and the velocity of said body.
 this could be useful for detecting the intensity of a dance gesture.
 
 dancers also really hate to wear little boxes and batteries strapped on their 
 bodies, but they really need to be emitting some kind of signal to be tracked.
 
 the current toy i have been working with is a program called mandala for the
 amiga, used with a live! video digitizer.  this works with a video camera 
 trained on the stage.  you can set thresholds for a zone within the field of
 view, and an object brighter than the threshold will trigger an event. events
 can be midi objects or sequences, amiga sounds or graphic objects.  it's been
 fun to play with, but the documentaion is arcane, and the digitizer is noisy.
 still, it's very appealing, the dancers don't have to wear any appliances,
 you can have ots of zone,s, it speaks midi, which can be used to control lights,
 and i don't have to build any electronics.  it's all done with lighting and
 video brightness and contrast adjustments.  i have yet to do anything
 particularly useful or artistic, but i have hopes...
 
 