
 > 	anyways, i've built the basic up & down converters with pretty
 > 	good results (>80% efficiency) but i'm running into problems
 > 	when i try to design & build anything that puts out serious
 > 	amps... i know it can be done (i have some 5v@200a guts on my
 > 	bench) but something puzzles me: i'm using a simple choke as 
 > 	the storage element (basicly a toroid with a single winding)
 > 	but all commercial models use transformers with many windings.
 > 	i traced a few and they seem to use some of the winding for
 > 	the usual error/feedback but some of the others seem to loose
 > 	me... what are they for? better than that, anyone have a full
 > 	schematic for one of these that i could get a copy of? i'd
 > 	love to see how they manage to squeeze out so much from such
 > 	low volume :-)
 
 most commercial switchers do not use magnetics for their energy storage;
 that's handled by the big caps on the primary side, those which in a 
 linearly-regulated power supply would be considered the "filter" caps,
 coming right after the bridge.  the transformer is just that - a 
 transformer.  it's there primarily to step the voltage up or down.  (although
 the inductance seen by the switch transistor on the primary side is not
 negligible, as anyone who's zapped said transistor from either failing to
 get one with a high enough breakdown voltage or neglecting to include a
 "snubber" diode across it would tell you.  actually, many transistors intended
 for switcher use today have the diode built in.)
 
 the basic switched-mode power supply operates something like this (in
 a somewhat simplified manner):  the ac line is rectified to produce a
 high voltage, more-or-less unregulated dc rail.  the energy storage (or
 "filter") caps appear across this rail, as does the switching transistor.
 the transistor chops the current into the primary side of the transformer,
 resulting in stepped-up or stepped-down pulses out the secondary, which 
 are then rectified and filtered.  at least one of the transformer's outputs
 is sampled and fed back to the control circuit for the switching transistor,
 which acts in a "pulse-width modulation" (pwm) fashion to control (by varying
 the pulse width) the amount of energy being dumped into the primary, and
 therefore the voltage coming out at the secondary.  the remaining outputs
 may be allowed to simply run at whatever value they will, more-or-less
 tracking the regulated output, or they may have some additional linear
 regulation added.  you may also note that the feedback between the 
 regulated output and the pwm control (which is most typically an ic)
 is not done via a direct electrical connection; this is due to various
 safety standards which require primary and secondary circuits to be
 electrically isolated.  often, the feedback path involves an optoisolator
 to meet this requirement.
 
 while the transformer isn't the primary energy-storage device in these
 designs, this does not mean that the energy stored in the transformer can
 be ignored; besides the inductive "kick" giving the switch transistor a
 bad time (as noted above), you also need to worry about getting all the
 energy that went *in* to the transformer back *out* again, one way or another.
 in some designs, this happens more or less automatically - but in others,
 you need to take special care to ensure that the transformer core doesn't
 saturate, which again would have disastrous results (best left to the 
 imagination! :-)).
 
 i'm not by any stretch of the imagination a power-supply designer; 
 hopefully, a real one will come along soon and clean up any gross errors
 in the above.
 
 
 bob myers  kc0ew   hewlett-packard co.      |opinions expressed here are not
                    systems technology div.  |those of my employer or any other
 myers@fc.hp.com    fort collins, colorado   |sentient life-form on this planet.
 