
 i have come across what i consider to be an excellent tract. it is a
 bit lengthy for a posting, but i thought i'd share it with all of you
 anyway. feel free to pass it along to anyone whom you feel might
 benefit from what it says. may god richly bless those who read it.
  
 =======================================================================
  
                    d o e s  g o d  l o v e  y o u ?
  
  
 q. what  kind  of  question  is that?   anyone who can read sees signs,
    tracts, books, and bumper stickers that say, "god loves you."  isn't
    that true?
  
 a. it  is  true that god offers his love to the whole world, as we read
    in one of the most quoted verses in the bible:
  
       for  god  so  loved  the world, that he gave his only begotten
       son, that whosoever believeth in him should  not  perish,  but
       have everlasting life.                               john 3:16
  
    however, god's love is qualified.  the bible says:
  
       the way of the wicked is an abomination unto the lord:  but he
       loveth him that followeth after righteousness.   proverbs 15:9
  
       for  the lord knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of
       the ungodly shall perish.                            psalm 1:6
  
  
 q. but  i am not wicked.  i am a decent, moral person.  surely the good
    i have done in my life far outweighs whatever bad i have done.   how
    can these verses apply to me?
  
 a. by  god's  standard  of  righteousness even the most moral person is
    looked upon by god as a desperate sinner on his way to  hell.    the
    bible teaches that no one is good enough in himself to go to heaven.
    on  the  contrary,  we  are all sinners and we are all guilty before
    god.
  
       as it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one:  there
       is  none  that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after
       god.                                            romans 3:10-11
  
       the  heart  is  deceitful  above  all  things, and desperately
       wicked: who can know it?                         jeremiah 17:9
  
  
 q. if i am such a wicked person in god's sight, what will god do to me?
  
 a. the  bible  teaches that at the end of the world all the wicked will
    come under eternal punishment in a place called hell.
  
       for  a  fire is kindled in mine anger, and shall burn unto the
       lowest hell, and shall consume the earth  with  her  increase,
       and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.  i will heap
       mischiefs upon them; i will spend mine arrows upon them.  they
       shall  be  burnt  with hunger, and devoured with burning heat,
       and  with  bitter  destruction:  i will also send the teeth of
       beasts upon them, with the poison of serpents of the dust.
                                                 deuteronomy 32:22-24
  
  
 q. oh,  come  on now!   hell is not real, is it?  surely things are not
    that bad.
  
 a. indeed,  hell is very real, and things are that bad for the individ-
    ual who does not know the lord jesus christ as savior.    the  bible
    makes  many  references  to hell, indicating that it is both eternal
    and consists of perpetual suffering.
  
       and  whosoever  was  not found written in the book of life was
       cast into the lake of fire.                   revelation 20:15
  
       so  shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come
       forth, and sever the wicked from among  the  just,  and  shall
       cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and
       gnashing of teeth.                            matthew 13:49-50
  
       ...    when  the lord jesus shall be revealed from heaven with
       his mighty angels, in flaming fire taking  vengeance  on  them
       that  know  not  god, and that obey not the gospel of our lord
       jesus   christ:    who  shall  be  punished  with  everlasting
       destruction  from the presence of the lord, and from the glory
       of his power;                            2 thessalonians 1:7-9
  
  
 q. that is terrible!  why would god create a hell?
  
 a. hell  is  terrible,  and  it  exists  because  god created man to be
    accountable to god for his actions.  god's perfect  justice  demands
    payment for sin.
  
       for the wages of sin is death;                     romans 6:23
  
       for  we  must  all  appear before the judgment seat of christ;
       that every one may  receive  the  things  done  in  his  body,
       according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
                                                   2 corinthians 5:10
  
       but i say unto you, that every idle word that men shall speak,
       they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.
                                                        matthew 12:36
  
  
 q. does that mean that at the end of the world everyone will be brought
    to life again to be judged and then to be sent to hell?
  
 a. indeed  it  does;  that  is,  unless  we  can find someone to be our
    substitute in bearing the punishment of eternal  damnation  for  our
    sins.    that  someone  is  god  himself, who came to earth as jesus
    christ to bear the wrath of god for all who believe in him.
  
       all  we  like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one
       to his own way; and the lord hath laid on him the iniquity  of
       us all.                                            isaiah 53:6
  
       but  he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for
       our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace  was  upon  him;
       and with his stripes we are healed.                isaiah 53:5
  
       for  i  delivered  unto  you  first  of  all that which i also
       received, how that christ died for our sins according  to  the
       scriptures; and that he was buried, and that he rose again the
       third day according to the scriptures:    1 corinthians 15:3-4
  
       for  he  hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that
       we might be made the righteousness of god in him.
                                                   2 corinthians 5:21
  
  
 q. are  you  saying that if i trust in christ as my substitute, who was
    already punished for my sins, then i will not have  to  worry  about
    hell anymore?
  
 a. yes, this is so!  if i have believed in christ as my savior, then it
    is  as  if  i  have already stood before the judgment throne of god.
    christ as my substitute has already paid for my sins.
  
       he  that  believeth  on  the son hath everlasting life: and he
       that believeth not the son shall not see life; but  the  wrath
       of god abideth on him.                               john 3:36
  
  
 q. but  what  does it mean to believe on him?  if i agree with all that
    the bible says about christ as savior, then am i saved from going to
    hell?
  
 a. believing  on  christ  means  a  whole lot more than agreeing in our
    minds with the truths of the bible.  it means that we hang our whole
    lives  on him.   it means that we entrust every part of our lives to
    the  truths  of the bible.  it means that we turn away from our sins
    and serve christ as our lord.
  
       no man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one,
       and  love  the  other;  or  else  he will hold to the one, and
       despise the other. ye cannot serve god and mammon.
                                                         matthew 6:24
  
       repent  ye  therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be
       blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from  the
       presence of the lord;                                acts 3:19
  
  
 q. are  you  saying  that  there  is no other way to escape hell except
    through jesus?   what about all the other  religions?    will  their
    followers also go to hell?
  
 a. yes, indeed.  they cannot escape the fact that god holds us account-
    able  for  our  sins.   god demands that we pay for our sins.  other
    religions  cannot  provide  a  substitute  to bear the sins of their
    followers.  christ is the only one who is able to bear our guilt and
    save us.
  
       neither  is  there  salvation  in any other: for there is none
       other name under heaven given among men, whereby  we  must  be
       saved.                                               acts 4:12
  
    jesus said:
  
       i  am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the
       father, but by me.                                   john 14:6
  
       if  we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us
       our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
                                                           1 john 1:9
  
  
 q. now i am desperate.  i do not want to go to hell.  what can i do?
  
 a. you  must  remember  that god is the only one who can help you.  you
    must throw yourself altogether on the mercies of god.   as  you  see
    your hopeless condition as a sinner, cry out to god to save you.
  
       and the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much
       as  his  eyes  unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying,
       god be merciful to me a sinner.                     luke 18:13
  
       ...  sirs, what must i do to be saved?  and they said, believe
       on the lord jesus christ, and thou shalt be saved, ...
                                                        acts 16:30-31
  
  
 q. but how can i believe on christ if i know so little about him?
  
 a. wonderfully,  god  not  only saves us through the lord jesus, but he
    also gives us the faith to believe on him.  you can pray to god that
    he will give you faith in jesus christ as your savior.
  
       for  by  grace  are  ye  saved  through faith; and that not of
       yourselves: it is the gift of god:               ephesians 2:8
  
    god works particularly through the bible to give us that faith.  so,
    if  you  really  mean  business  with  god about your salvation, you
    should  use  every opportunity to hear and study the bible, which is
    the only word of god.
    in  this  brochure,  all  verses  from the bible are within indented
    paragraphs.  give heed to them with all your heart.
  
       so  then  faith  cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of
       god.                                              romans 10:17
  
  
 q. but does this mean that i have to surrender everything to god?
  
 a. yes.    god wants us to come to him in total humility, acknowledging
    our sinfulness and our helplessness, trusting totally in him.
  
       the  sacrifices  of  god  are  a broken spirit: a broken and a
       contrite heart, o god, thou wilt not despise.      psalm 51:17
  
    because  we  are sinners we love our sins.  therefore, we must begin
    to pray to god for an intense  hatred  of  our  sins.    and  if  we
    sincerely desire salvation, we will also begin to turn from our sins
    as  god  strengthens  us.    we know that our sins are sending us to
    hell.
  
       unto  you  first god, having raised up his son jesus, sent him
       to bless you, in turning  away  every  one  of  you  from  his
       iniquities.                                          acts 3:26
  
  
 q. doesn't  the  bible teach that i must attend church regularly and be
    baptized?  will these save me?
  
 a. if  possible,  we should do these things, but they will not save us.
    no work of any kind can secure our salvation.   salvation  is  god's
    sovereign gift of grace given according to his mercy and good pleas-
    ure.  salvation is
  
       not of works, lest any man should boast.         ephesians 2:9
  
  
 q. what else will happen at the end of the world?
  
 a. those  who have trusted in jesus as their savior will be transformed
    into their glorious eternal bodies and will be with christ  forever-
    more.
  
       for  the  lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
       with the voice of the archangel, and with the  trump  of  god:
       and  the  dead  in christ shall rise first:  then we which are
       alive  and remain shall be caught up together with them in the
       clouds,  to meet the lord in the air:  and so shall we ever be
       with the lord.                         1 thessalonians 4:16-17
  
  
 q. what will happen to the earth at that time?
  
 a. god  will destroy the entire universe by fire and create new heavens
    and a new earth where christ will reign with his believers  forever-
    more.
  
       but  the day of the lord will come as a thief in the night; in
       the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise,  and
       the  elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and
       the   works  that  are  therein  shall  be  burned  up.    ...
       nevertheless  we,  according  to  his  promise,  look  for new
       heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.
                                                      2 peter 3:10,13
  
  
 q. does  the  bible  give us any idea of when the end of the earth will
    come?
  
 a. yes!    the end will come when christ has saved all whom he plans to
    save.
  
       and  this  gospel  of the kingdom shall be preached in all the
       world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall  the  end
       come.                                            matthew 24:14
  
  
 q. can we know how close to the end of the world we might be?
  
 a. yes!   god gives much information in the bible concerning the timing
    of the history of the world and tells us that while the day  of  the
    lord  will come as a thief in the night for the unsaved, it will not
    come  as  a  thief for the believers.  there is much evidence in the
    bible  that  the  end  of  the world and the return of christ may be
    very, very close.* all the time clues in the bible point to this.
  
       for  when  they  shall  say,  peace  and  safety;  then sudden
       destruction cometh upon them, as travail  upon  a  woman  with
       child; and they shall not escape.          1 thessalonians 5:3
  
       surely  the  lord  god  will  do nothing, but he revealeth his
       secret unto his servants the prophets.                amos 3:7
  
  
 q. but that means judgment day is almost here.
  
 a. yes,  it  does.    god  warned  ancient nineveh that he was going to
    destroy that great city and he gave them forty days warning.
  
       and jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he
       cried,  and  said,  yet  forty  days,  and  nineveh  shall  be
       overthrown.                                          jonah 3:4
  
  
 q. what did the people of nineveh do?
  
 a. from  the  king on down they humbled themselves before god, repented
    of their sins, and cried to god for mercy.
  
       but  let  man  and  beast  be  covered with sackcloth, and cry
       mightily unto god: yea, let them turn every one from his  evil
       way,  and  from  the violence that is in their hands.  who can
       tell  if  god  will  turn  and  repent, and turn away from his
       fierce anger, that we perish not?                  jonah 3:8-9
  
  
 q. did god hear their prayers?
  
 a. yes.  god saved a great many people of nineveh.
  
  
 q. can  i still cry to god for mercy so that i will not come into judg-
    ment?
  
 a. yes.   there is still time to become saved even though that time has
    become very short.
  
       how  shall  we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which
       at the first began to be spoken by the lord, and was confirmed
       unto us by them that heard him;                    hebrews 2:3
  
       in  god is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength,
       and my refuge, is in god.   trust in  him  at  all  times;  ye
       people,  pour  out  your heart before him: god is a refuge for
       us.                                               psalm 62:7-8
  
  
  
  
             a r e  y o u  r e a d y  t o  m e e t  g o d ?
  
  
  
 a  book  entitled  1994?,  written by harold camping, presents biblical
 information that we may be very near the end of time.  for  information
 on  how to obtain a copy or to receive a free program guide and list of
 radio  stations on which you can hear our gospel programs, please write
 to family radio, oakland, california, 94621 (the united states of amer-
 ica), or call 1-800-543-1495.
  
                ----------------------------------------
  
  
 the  foregoing  is a copy of the "does god love you?" tract printed by,
 and available free of charge from, family radio.   a  number  of  minor
 changes  have  been  made to its layout to facilitate computer printing
 and  distribution.  the only change to the text itself is the paragraph
 which  describes  the  way in which biblical passages appear within the
 text.    in  the  original  tract they appear in italic lettering; they
 appear here as indented paragraphs.
  
  
 i have read mr. camping's book, compared it with what the bible actual-
 ly  says, find it to be the most credible research with respect to what
 the  future holds that i have ever come across, and agree with him that
 there  is just too much data to ignore.  while none of us is guaranteed
 one  more  second  of  life, and while we, therefore, should take these
 matters  very seriously regardless of when christ will actually return,
 it  would appear that our natural tendency to postpone caring about our
 eternal  destiny  until we feel that our death is imminent is even more
 senseless  now  because,  in  all  likelihood, the law of averages with
 respect  to life expectancy no longer applies.  if you wish to obtain a
 copy  of  this book so that you can check out these facts for yourself,
 you may find the following information helpful:
  
       title:       1994?
       author:      harold camping
       publisher:   vantage press
       distributor: baker and taylor
       isbn:        0-533-10368-1
  
  
 i  have  chosen  to share this tract with you because i whole-heartedly
 agree with everything it declares and feel that now, perhaps more  than
 ever  before,  this information must be made known.  to paraphrase acts
 20:27,  it  does not shun to declare unto us all the counsel of god.  i
 am  always  willing  to  discuss  the  eternal truths of the bible with
 anyone who is interested as i believe them to be the only issues of any
 real  importance since we will spend, comparatively speaking, so little
 time  on this side of the grave and so much on the other.  feel free to
 get in touch with me at any time:
  
       e-mail: davem@bnr.ca
       office: 1-613-765-4671
       home:   1-613-726-0014
  
       dave mielke
       856 grenon avenue
       ottawa, ontario, canada
       k2b 6g3
 