
 in article <apr.9.01.11.16.1993.16937@athos.rutgers.edu>  
 emery@tc.fluke.com (john emery) writes:
 [much of the excellent post deleted for space -- tjl]
 
 )->with all the suffering and persecution that it meant to be a believer,  
 it
 )->would be quite probable that at least one of those in the supposed  
 conspiracy
 )->would come forward and confess that the whole thing was a big hoax.   
 yet
 )->not one did.  it seems rather reasonable that the disciples did not  
 make
 )->up the resurrection but sincerely believed that jesus had actually  
 risen
 )->from the dead; especially in light of the sufferings that came upon  
 those
 )->who believed.
 
 
 i was at the "jubilee" conference this year in pittsburgh pa, and the  
 speaker there spoke of this as well. he talked about many of the same  
 things you mentioned in your post, but here he went into a little more  
 detail.  i'll paraphrase as best i can:
 
 "suppose you were part of the `christian consipracy' which was going to  
 tell people that christ had risen.  never mind the stoning, the being  
 burned alive, the possible crucifixion ... let's just talk about a  
 scourging.  the whip that would be used would have broken pottery, metal,  
 bone, and anything else that they could find attached to it.  you would be  
 stood facing a wall, with nothing to protect you.
 
 "when the whip hit you the first time, it would tear the flesh off you  
 with instant incredibly intense pain.  you would think to yourself `all  
 this for a lie?'  the second hit would drop you to your knees, you would  
 scream out in agony that your raw back was being torn at again.  you would  
 say to yourself: `all this for a lie?'  and you had 37 more coming.
 
 "at the third hit you would scream out that it was all a lie, beg for them  
 to stop, and tell them that you would swear on your life that it had all  
 been a lie, if they would only stop...."
 
 it is amazing enough that those who believed kept their faith under such  
 torture.... but for a lie?  there is no one fool enough to do that.... and  
 no one came forward.
 
 excellent post john, thanks for taking the time.
 
 
 --
 tj luoma <luomat@alleg.edu>	"god be merciful to 
 "i have fought a good fight,	 me a sinner."--st luke
  i have finished my course,	"for me to live is christ, and
  i have kept the faith." 2 tim   to die is gain"  -- philippians 1:21             
 