
 
 	is life a pass/fail course, and does god grade on a
 curve?
 	i'm new here, and only vaguely religious, but i want to
 know what some of you people think.  specifically, are there an
 infinite number of heavens, and a person goes to the one that
 he/she deserves?  or is it simply heaven or nothing (hell?)
 also, are we "graded" by those around us, or has there always
 been some unchanging method?  is the person's childhood taken
 into account?
 	i'm sure these must sound like over-simplifications to
 most of you, but i figure that you're the experts.
 
 						-quinn
 
 [eschatology is an area on which christians do not agree.  i suspect
 that's because our primary source of information is prophets and
 visionaries, and their writings tend to be highly symbolic.  however
 both jesus' teachings in the gospels and books such as the revelation
 to john talk primarily about the difference between eternal life and
 eternal death.  on a number of occasions jesus does say things that
 imply some sort of differentiation, e.g. lk 10:14 and a number of
 similar passages where jesus says things like "even xxx will be better
 off than you in the judgement."  also, i cor 3 talks about someone who
 gets into heaven, but by the skin of his teeth, as it were.  but these
 passages are not normally interpreted as suggesting separate heavens,
 so much as differing levels of prestige or punishment in heaven or
 hell (and not all christians would even go as far as that).  the only
 christian group i know of that believes in multiple heavens is the
 mormons, and they are very far from mainstream christianity (far
 enough that many of our readers would not call them christian).  their
 ideas in this area involve specific mormon revelations, in addition
 to the bible and "holy tradition" of a more generic christian sort.
 
 note that many christians will cringe at the very thought of
 associating grading with god.  the whole point of christ was to free
 us from the results of a test that we couldn't possibly pass.  if you
 like test analogies, god grades on a very strict and unbending scale,
 but he also cheats -- he replaces our test papers with an exam that
 was prepared by the teacher, before actually doing the grading.
 because some people end up in heaven and others in hell, it's easy to
 see why you'd be inclined to think of it as grading.  while there are
 differences among branches of christianity on details, i think we all
 agree that in one way or another, god cheats.
 
 i am personally very sceptical about anyone who claims to know exactly
 how far god's cheating extends.  will he accept people who don't
 explicitly acknowledge christ, but somehow still follow him in their
 hearts?  many christians believe that this is possible, at least in
 principle, but certainly not all do.  jesus provided us with a clear
 description of how to be saved, but it's not clear to me that he
 provided an exact description of how he's going to place the dividing
 line.  certainly he made it clear that we can't expect to know whether
 other individuals are saved or not.
 
 --clh]
 