
 in <apr.10.05.30.16.1993.14313@athos.rutgers.edu>
 jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (john e murray) writes:
 
 >i would like the opinion of netters on a subject that has been bothering my
 >wife and me lately: liturgy, in particular, catholic liturgy.  in the last few
 >years it seems that there are more and more ad hoc events during mass.  it's
 >driving me crazy!  the most grace-filled aspect of a liturgical tradition is
 >that what happens is something we _all_ do together, because we all know how 
 >to do it.  led by the priest, of course, which makes it a kind of dialogue we 
 >present to god.  but the best masses i've been to were participatory prayers.
 
 [ . . . ]
 
 having lived through the kicking and screaming in the 60s and 70s as the
 catholics were invited to participate in the liturgy instead of counting
 their rosary beads during mass, i find this comment interesting.  there
 is a _massively_ longer tradition for proclaiming the passion accounts
 without active participation.  if you know the latin, one really
 beautiful way to hear the passion is it's being chanted by three
 deacons:  the narrator chants in the middle baritone range, jesus chants
 in the bass, and others directly quoted are handled by a high tenor.
 this is actually the basis for the common proclamation of the passion
 that john would prefer.
 
 but there is always a judgement call based on pastoral considerations.
 each pastor makes his own decisions (it isn't a church-wide conspiracy
 against participation).  the palm sunday liturgy, with its initial
 blessing and distribution of the palms and procession, is already
 getting long before you get to the passion; some pastors feel that they
 should not make the people stand through that long narrative.  also, the
 orchestrated proclamation with multiple readers and public participation
 in the crowd quotations runs longer than the single-reader proclamation
 --- in churches with multiple masses for the sunday, it might be
 necessary to go with the briefer options just to "get 'em in and get 'em
 out".
 
 each parish is different.  catholics are no longer canonically tied to
 their geographic parishes.  it is possible that another catholic parish
 in the columbus area (based on the ohio state address) has a liturgy
 closer to your preferences.  or talk to some of your fellow
 parishioners and see how common your preferences are --- pastors
 generally are willing to listen to non-confrontational requests.  though
 you probably should bring along a paramedic in case he reacts too strongly
 to the shock of people asked for a _longer_ sunday mass.
 
 perhaps the problem is that recent liturgical development hasn't follow
 the continuous evolution model (the accumulation of small changes, no
 single one of which is too hard to take) but rather the punctuated
 equilibrium model (things stay the same and we get accustomed to them,
 then the marked mutation hits).  {my apologies if i am mis-remembering
 the names of the evolutionary theories.}
 -- 
                                                     --- tim rolfe
                                                  rolfe@dsuvax.dsu.edu
                                                  rolfe@junior.dsu.edu
                                                 rolfet@columbia.dsu.edu
 