
 were the early christians weird?  yes!  so were their non-christian
 contemporaries (the more familiar you are with late republican rome
 or the pricipate, the weirder those people will seem -- forget the
 creative filtering done by renaissance and eighteenth century hero
 worship.)  so are modern non-christians.  and christians.
 
 you are pretty weird, yourself, with your rather acid dismissal of
 luther and of protestantism -- and in apparently buying into a
 simplistic propaganda model about catholicism *not* being faddish.  
 sure, it's so large that global fads take longer cycles than they
 do in smaller denominations (and local ones are not usually visible
 unless you do a lot of traveling to exotic lands :-)).  may i recom-
 mend, as a salutary antidote to this nonsense philippe aries' book
 _the hour of our death_, a longitudinal study of death customs in 
 western [specifically catholic] christendom?
 
 and it won't help to escape into the obscurity of the first christian
 century.  paul was pretty weird, too; as were peter and the others in
 the (apparently quite weird) circle around jesus.
 
 what i think you might find helpful is a bit more charity -- try to
 understand these weirdos and nutcases with the same respect and love
 you would expect others to show your notions.  we *are* commanded to
 love one another, after all.  and brown's book is, in fact, a heroic
 attempt to see the groupings he talks about as motivated in love and
 the gospel and their social contexts.  (if anything, brown is *too*
 heroic here -- he manages to overstrain himself at times :-))
 
 i don't suggest that we *follow* any of these old cult paths -- and
 it raises hard questions from the skeptic inside me that so much of
 early christianity *was* like the weird (christian and non-christian)
 cults we see today.  to that extent, i think you raise a serious
 problem (and perhaps your phrasing is implicitly self-deprecatory
 and ironic.)
 
 but the first principle for *answering* these questions is respect and
 love for those we do not understand.  and it helps to *work* at under-
 standing (as long as we do not get overwhelmed by revulsion and begin
 to withdraw our respect for them as people.)  i would advise, in other
 words, more historical reading (brown's other books are also good, most
 especially his bio. of augustine; also try robin lane fox's _christians
 and pagans_, maybe the paul veyne ed. _history of private life_, some
 of foucault's books on sexuality in the ancient world ...)
 
 humanity *is* weird -- we have known one sane person, and we killed him.
 fortunately for us, this has proved a comedy rather than a tragedy.
 
 easter, 1993.
 
 (yes; this is a tad early -- our vigil service here has been moved forward
 because so many churches in the area have taken to doing their own vigils,
 and the seminarians must therefore worship-and-run if they are to do it
 here and there as well.  think of this as an anglican fad.  :-))
 -- 
 michael l. siemon		we must know the truth, and we must
 mls@ulysses.att.com		love the truth we know, and we must
      - or -			act according to the measure of our love.
 mls@panix.com		  				-- thomas merton
 