
 09 apr 93, susan harwood kaczmarczik writes to all:
 
  >> "we suspect that's because one party to the (environmental)
  >> dispute thinks the earth is sanctified.  it's clear that much
  >> of the environmentalist energy is derived from what has been
  >> called the religious left, a secular, or even pagan fanaticism
  >> that now worships such gods as nature and gender with a
  >> reverence formerly accorded real religions."  (emphasis mine).
 
  shk> first of all, secular and pagan are not synonyms.  pagan, which is
  shk> derived from the latin paganus, means "of the country."  it is, in
  shk> fact, a cognate with the italian paisano, which means peasant.
  shk> paganism, among other things, includes a reverence for the planet and
  shk> all life on the planet -- stemming from the belief that all life is
  shk> interconnected.  so, rather than be something secular, it is something
  shk> very sacred.
 
 i would go further, and say that much of the damage to the environment
 has been caused by the secular worldview, or by the humanist
 worldview, and especially by the secular humanist worldview.
 
 this is not to say that all secular humanists are necessarily avid
 destroyers of the environment, and i am sure that there are many who
 are concerned about the environment. but at the time of the
 renaissance and ref ormation in western europe man became the centre,
 or the focus of culture (hence "humanism"). this consciousness was
 also secular, in the sense that it was concerned primarily with the
 present age, r ather than the age to come. capitalism arose at the
 same time, and the power of economics became central in philosophy.
 this doesn't mean that economics did not exist before, simply that it
 began to dominate the conscious cultural values of western european
 society and its offshoots. this cultural shift was, in its later
 stages, accompanied by industrial revolutions and the values that
 justified
  them.
 
 there was a fundamental cultural shift in the meaning of "economics" -
 from the christian view of man as the economos, the steward, of
 creation to the secular idea of man as the slave of economic forces
 and powers. there were denominational differences among the new
 worshippers of mammon. for some the name of the deity was "the free
 rein of the market mechanism", while for others it was "the
 dialectical forces of history". but in both the capitalist west and
 the socialist east the environment was sacrificed on the altar of
 mammon. the situation was mitigated in the west because thos e who
 were concerned about the damage to the environment had more freedom to
 oppose what was happening and state their case.
 
 steve
 
 --- golded 2.40
 