
 by028@cleveland.freenet.edu (gary v. cavano) writes:
 
 >...does anybody out there see the current emphasis on the
 >environment being turned (unintentionally, of course) into
 >pantheism?
 
 >i've debated this quite a bit, and while i think a legitimate
 >concern for the planet is a great thing, i can easily see it
 >being perverted into something dangerous.
 
   many pagans are involved in environmentalism--this is only natural, since
 respect for the earth is a fundamental tenet of all pagan denominations.  this
 doesn't mean that environmentalism is wrong, any more than supporting peace in
 the middle east is wrong because jews and muslims also work for it.
 
   nonetheless, paganism is certainly on the rise, and we as christians should
 address this and look at what draws people from paganism to christianity.  like
 it or not, pagan religions are addressing needs that christianity should be,
 and isn't.  
   i believe that paganism has hit upon some major truths that christianity has
 forgotten.  this doesn't mean that paganism is right, but it does mean that we
 have something to learn from the pagan movement.
   first, paganism respects the feminine.  christianity has a long history of
 oppressing women, and many (if not most) male christians are still unable to
 live in a non-sexist manner.  the idea that god is sexless, or that christ 
 could have been a women and still accomplished his mission, is met with a great
 deal of resistance.  this insistance on a male-dominated theology (and the 
 male-dominated society that goes with it) drives away many young women who have
 had to put up with sexist attitudes in their churches.
   second, paganism respects the physical world.  this is an idea with great
 ramifications.  one of these is environmentalism--respect for our surroundings
 and our world.  another is integration of sexuality.  christianity has a long
 tradition of calling all sexual feeelings sinful and urging people to suppress
 and deny their sexuality.  this is too much--sex is clearly a part of human
 experience and attempting to remove it is simply not a feasible option.  
 christianity has only begun to develop a workable sexual ethic, and paganism
 is an attractive option.
   i'm not advocating that christian doctrines (no sex before marriage, etc.)
 should be changed--just that christians work toward a more moderate ethic of
 sexuality.  denial of sexuality places as much emphasis on sex as unmoderated
 sexuality, and neither one does much to bring us closer to god.
 
 alan terlep				    "incestuous vituperousness"
 oakland university, rochester, mi			
 atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu				   --melissa eggertsen
 rushing in where angels fear to tread.		
 