
 i'd like to share my thoughts on this topic of "arrogance of
 christians" and look forward to any responses.  in my
 encounters with christians, i find myself dismayed by their
 belief that their faith is total truth.  according to them,
 their beliefs come from the bible and the bible is the word of
 god and god is truth - thus they know the truth.  this stance
 makes it difficult to discuss other faiths with them and my own
 hesitations about christianity because they see no other way.
 their way is the 'truth.'
 
 but i see their faith arising from a willful choice to believe
 a particular way.  that choice is part faith and part reason,
 but it seems to me a choice.
 
 my discussions with some christians remind me of schoolyard
 discussions when i was in grade school:
 
 a kid would say, "all policemen are jerks!"  i'd ask, "how do
 you know?"  "because my daddy told me so!"  "how do you know
 you're daddy is right?"  "he says he's always right!"
 
 well the argument usually stops right there.  in the end,
 aren't we all just kids, groping for the truth?  if so, do we have
 the authority to declare all other beliefs besides our own as
 false?
 
 -------------
 
 this is only my third time browsing through this newsgroup.  i
 apologize if i'm covering tired old ground.  some of the
 discussions on this topic have piqued my interest and i welcome
 any comments.
 
 | louis j. kim                      ---  _ o                ph:512-522-5556 |
 | southwest research institute    ---  ,/  |\/'            fax:512-522-3042 |
 | post office drawer 28510      ----      |__                 lkim@swri.edu |
 | san antonio, tx 78228-0510   ----    __/   \    76450.2231@compuserve.com |
 -- 
 
 [i'm sort of mystified about how a christian might respond to this.  i
 can understand criticisms of christianity that say there's not enough
 evidence to believe it, or that there's just as good evidence for
 other religions.  i don't agree, but clearly there are plenty of
 intelligent people who don't find the evidence convincing.  but that
 doesn't seem to be your point.  rather, you seem upset that people who
 believe christianity is true also believe that things which contradict
 it are false.
 
 this suggests a model of spiritual things that's rather different than
 the christian one.  it sounds more like an existentialist view, where
 people choose what value to follow, but there's no actual independent
 spiritual reality, and so no way to say that a specific choice is in
 some unique sense right.  this sort of model -- with modifications of
 one sort or another -- may be appropriate for some religions.  but
 christianity is in its essense a "historical" religion.  that is, it's
 based on the concept that there are actual spiritual entities out
 there, that one of them has intervened in history in specific ways,
 and that we see evidence of that in history.  in the "mundane" world,
 we are not free to choose how things work.  when we drop something, it
 falls (aside from well-defined situations where it doesn't).  the
 christian concept is that spiritual matters, there is also an actual
 external reality.  i hope we're all honest enough not to claim that we
 have perfect understanding.  but while we may not think we know
 everything, we are confident that we know some things.  and that
 implies that we think things that contradict them are false.  i don't
 see how else we could proceed.
 
 this needn't result in arrogance.  i'm certainly interested in talking
 with people of other religions.  they may have things to teach me, and
 even if they don't, i respect them as fellow human beings.  but it's
 got to be possible to respect people and also think that on some
 matters they are wrong.  maybe even disasterously wrong.
 
 --clh]
 