
 
 	the problems with catholic liturgy are likely to continue for
 some time.  the problem is, in a nutshell, this: the liturgy is a
 symbolic action - in other words catholics do [or should] believe that
 the _signs_ during the mass - water, blessings, vestments, altar,
 relics, etc - are real. that is the sprinkling of water bestows real,
 almost tangible, holiness, the vestments are a real indication of real
 sacred time. the point of a _symbol_ is that it is understood by all
 to be connected to an underlying real referent. this kind of thinking
 precludes analysis; holy water is not holy because of anything, it
 simply is holy.
 
 but, modern westerners find it extremely difficult, especially if
 well- educated, to think of the mass as a symbol. we are more likely
 to see it as a _sign_, ie an action that represents grace, but which
 could be replaced with other signs. in concrete terms, this means the
 mass has become a commercial for god's grace rather than the real
 thing. you can mess around with a commercial in a way you wouldn't
 dare with the real thing [ask coca-cola co.!]. these attitudes have
 been encouraged by liturgy workshops, etc. which instead of focusing
 on _how_ to do do liturgy, have focused on how to create a meaning in
 liturgy. you can only create signs, symbols have to come from god [or
 the heart, or somewhere deeper than analysis. the most dramatic
 example of this shift in understanding has been in the treatment of
 the sacred species [the consecrated host and wine]. now, with pita
 bread etc, it is common to come away from the altar with hands covered
 in particles. if the host is a sign of grace, this isnt and issue; but
 catholics in the past would have been distraught at this real
 desacration of the real symbol of jesus' body.
 
 modern catholic liturgy  is caught in this epistemological shift. we
 try to perfrom the old rites, but then we have some liturgomaniac
 priest get up and 'explain' what we are doing - so we stop doing it and
 start pretending to do it. this is not a soul filling experience.
 it doesn't help btw that we have got stuck witha huge amount of two and
 three chord ersatz-folk music [again a result of mis-analysis: complicated
 tunes are in fact easier to remember than simple ones - this was the
 genius of wesley and the 19c anglican hymn writers]. taize' is only
 slightly better.
 
 what are we to do? well i suggest rejecting the parish system if it
 doesn't work for you. search out a church where the liturgy is well
 prepared not well-explained. they exist in every city. this is not btw
 a matter of particular style: the music might be old or new. it is
 the attitude of the church that counts. also, note that a conservative
 liturgy - harking back to pre-vatican ii days, does not necessarily mean
 the church will be socially conservative.
 
 in nyc i can recommend:
 	corpus christi - w 12st st.
 	corpus christi - w 12st st. - very conservative liturgy, 
 	st. joseph's, greenwich village.  - modern, "clean", largely gay
 	oratorian church, brooklyn - very beautiful
 
 avoid, anywhere, anytime a church with electric candles.
 
 happy easter: christos aneste', christos voskrezhne, christ is risen
 
 paul halsall
 halsall@murray.fordham.edu
 