
 marka@travis.csd.harris.com (mark ashley) writes:
 
 in soc.religion.christian you write:
 
 >regarding david wilkerson's prophecies.  while i'm not real sure of
 >his credibility, i do remember a book he wrote, called a vision or
 >something like that.  he made a prediction that people who bought gold
 >would be hurt financially.  at the time, gold was up to about $800;
 >now it is less than half that.  this prediction stuck in my mind
 >because a lot of people where i worked were buying gold.
 
 note that the above type of prediction does not require a god to be made.
 an expert in a field can also predict things based on experience.
 beware of predictions like "the volcano will erupt tomorrow!"  don't
 follow the preacher because of such statements that come true.
 
 note also, that if i'm describing a (hypothetical) death of a friend as
 a result of his passion for fast motorcycles, i might say "his mother
 predicted he would die."  of course, his father may have said "he 'll
 make good money because of his hobby" and depending upon the final
 outcome of the situation i end up mentioning the one that's
 relevant.  a reader down the road will get the impression that the
 mother or father had predicted accurately the event, when it was just
 a casual statement.
 
 finally, on prophesies, note that there are many prophesies that can be
 fulfilled my people, often to fool believers.  if i say, "beware, the
 terminal will unexpectedly be shut off!" and then after 2 secs i turn
 it off (or have someone come out from another room and do it) there was
 no prediction.  a similar situation arises with the establishment of
 the jewish state.  while pressing for it, prominent jews argued that it
 was predicted that they'd have a state again, and that the time has
 come.  (i've read this somewhere, but can't think of the source - if
 you can, please let me know.)  in this case, the establishment of the
 state does not really fulfill the  prophesy since the prophesy was used
 in order to push for the establishment of the state.
 
 deciding what was truely a fulfillment of prophesy is very tricky.
 
 -leo
 
 -- 
 "my mother wanted to save herself until marriage.  every |leonidas hepis
 day i thank god that she didn't.  because without pre-   |
 marital sex, i would never have been born.  premarital   |lhep_ltd@uhura
 sex -- what a beautiful choice." - greg weeks            |.cc.rochester.edu
 