
 the story i related is one of the seven apparitions
 approved by our church as worthy of belief.  it happened
 in la salle, france.
 
 the moral lesson of the story is:
 
 the lamb of god has been sacrificed and his blood has 
 been used to cleanse us of our sins every moment as god perceives
 worthy of being done in heaven.  mary weeps for the lamb and
 for the rest of her offsprings.  this will continue while we 
 disobey god or sin against him.  mary, as a messenger, 
 has been given the task to make us be 'aware' of the evil
 serpent (communism, wars, famine, unfaithful, disobedience
 to god, etc.) running after the rest of her offsprings.   
 the children who went astray by disobedience led by the dragon is 
 brought back by her peace and loving messages, reparations for sins, 
 to obey god's commandments and be more worthy to be in the presence 
 of the lamb.
 
 as she was conceived without sin to be worthy of bearing the
 son of god in her womb, mary has been preparing us, the church,
 the body of christ, for his second coming (making sure we are 
 protected from the dragon).  also, she has been preparing the new 
 eden, by reversing the deed of the ancient eve.  the new eden will be
 the sanctuary of the righteous as judged by christ in his
 next coming.
     
 i relate the story again:
     i believe this and mary, in one of her apparitions  
     in 19th or 20th century, she appeared to these      
     two children who tends goats and cows (i forgot     
     the exact place).  she was  weeping and telling the 
     children that she is afraid she's "going to lose her
     son's arm".  she is mourning too for these          
     townfolks because it was their fault that there     
     would be drought in their harvest; not much good    
     food again this year as it was last year.           
                                                         
     mary tells the children:                            
 *    most of the townfolks in this place worked whole    *
 *    week even on sundays when they should be in church  *
 *    honoring god.  these townfolks swears and           *
 *    uses her son's name in bad words.  that is          *
     why her son's arm is so heavy in pain.              
     then she asked them if they pray.  the children     
     said "hardly".  she asked them to pray every        
     morning and night.  when the children went back     
     from work they had to tell somebody about this.     
     when the news was spred and after thorough          
 *    investigation of the incident, the townfolks        *
 *    were converted and faith and obedience to god       *
 *    were restored in their community.                   *
 
 
 once again, the lamb succeeds.
 
 -marida
   "...spreading god's words through actions..."
     -mother teresa
 