
 dean velasco quoted a letter from james m stowell, president of
 moody bible institute:
 
 >  the other day, i was at the dry cleaner and the radio was playing.
 >  it caught my attention because a talk show guest was criticizing
 >  evangelical christians, saying we believe in absolutes and think we
 >  are the only ones who know what the absolutes are.
 
 >  we affirm the absolutes of scripture, not because we are arrogant
 >  moralists, but because we believe in god who is truth, who has revealed
 >  his truth in his word, and therefore we hold as precious the strategic
 >  importance of those absolutes."
 
 there has been a lot of discussion, but so far nobody seems to have hit on
 exactly what the criticism of "arrogance" is aimed at.
 
 the arrogance being attacked is that we "think we are the only ones who know
 what the absolutes are".  in short, many evangelicals claim that they are
 infallible on the matter of religious texts.
 
 in particular, the problem is one of epistemology.  as a shorthand, you can
 think of epistemology as "how do you know?"  that question, it turns out, is
 a very troubling one.
 
 the problem with `absolute certainty' is that, at the bottom, at least some of
 the thinking goes on inside your own head.  unless you can be certain that
 everything which happens in your head is infallible, the reasoning you did to
 discover a source of truth is in question.
 
 and that means you do not have absolute justification for your source of
 authority -- which means you do not have absolute certainty.
 
 
 let's take the specific example of biblical inerrancy, and a fictional
 inerrantist named zeke.  (the following arguments applies to the idea of
 papal infallibility, too.)
 
 zeke has, we presume, spent some time studying the bible, and history, and
 several other topics.  he has concluded, based on all these studies (and
 possibly some religious experiences) that the bible is a source of absolute
 truth.
 
 he may be correct; but even if he is, he cannot be certain that he is correct.
 his conclusion depends on how well he studied history -- he may have made
 mistakes, and the references he used may have contained mistakes.  his
 conclusion depends on how well he studied the bible -- he may have made
 mistakes.  his conclusion depends on his own reasoning -- and he may have made
 mistakes.  (noticing a common thread yet?  8-)
 
 everything about his study of the world that he did -- everything that
 happened in his own head -- is limited by his own thinking.  no matter what
 he does to try and cover his mistakes, he can never be certain of his own
 infallibility.  as long as any part of the belief is based on his own
 reasoning, that belief cannot be considered "absolutely certain".
 
 zeke believes that he has found a source of absolute truth -- but that belief
 is only as good as the quality of the search he made for it.  unless he can
 say that his own reasoning is flawless, his conclusions are in doubt.
 
 any belief that you hold about absolute sources of truth depends in part on
 your own thinking -- there is no way out of the loop.  only an infallible
 thinker can have absolute certainty in all his beliefs.
 
 
 this is easy to demonstrate.  let's go back to our shorthand method of doing
 epistemology: "how do you know?"  imagine a hypothetical discussion:
 
  a: the bible is a source of absolute truth.
 
  b: how do you know?
 
  a: i studied history and the bible and religious writings and church
     teachings and came to this conclusion.
 
  b: how do you know you studied history correctly?
 
  a: well, i double-checked everything.
 
  b: how do you know you double-checked correctly?
 
  a: well, i compared my answers with some smart people and we agreed.
 
  b: just because some smart guy believes something that doesn't mean it is
     true.  how do you know they studied it correctly?
 
  a: ...
 
 and, as you see, b will eventually get a to the point where he has to say "i
 can't prove that there are no mistakes" -- and as long as you may have made a
 mistake, then you cannot be absolutely certain.
 
 there is no way out of the loop.
 
 
 this is where the "arrogance of christians" arises: many people believe
 that their own personal research can give them absolute certainty about the
 doctrines of christianity -- they are implicitly claiming that they are
 infallible, and that there is no possibility of mistake.
 
 claiming that you cannot have made a mistake, and that your thinking has led
 you to a flawless conclusion, is pretty arrogant.
 
  *
 
 people who want to see this argument explained in great detail should try to
 find _the infallibility of the church_, by george salmon.  he is attacking
 the idea that the pope can be knowably infallible (and he does so very well),
 but the general argument applies equally well to the idea that the bible is
 knowably inerrant.
 
 
 darren f provine / kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu
 "at the core of all well-founded belief, lies belief that is unfounded."
                                                     -- ludwig wittgenstein
 