
 according to what i have read on biblical idioms, speaking "in x's
 name" is a standard aramaic/hebrew legal idiom for what we today
 would call power of attorney.  a person from jesus' culture authorized
 to conduct business "in john's name" had full authority over john's
 financial affairs, but was held under a solemn fiduciary obligation to
 work only for john's benefit and consonant with john's wishes.  it was
 not required for the steward to preface each business transaction with
 "in john's name"; it was sufficient to have valid power of attorney
 and be operating in good faith. (note the overlap here between legal
 and religious definitions of "faith".)
 
 with this cultural background, praying "in jesus' name" does not
 mandate a particular verbal formula; rather it requires that the
 petitioner be operating faithfully and consciously within an analogous
 "fiduciary" relationship with jesus and for the purposes of his
 kingdom.  the message of "praying in jesus' name" is thus closely
 aligned with the parable of the talents and other passages about god's
 delegation of kingdom business to his stewards, both resources and
 responsibilities.  this idea of praying "in jesus' name" is not only
 present but prominent in the lord's prayer, although the verbal
 forumula is absent.
 
 the act of praying the words "in jesus' name" may be beneficial if
 they cause us to clarify the relationship of our requests to the
 advancement of god's kingdom.  for that reason, i'm not quite ready
 to say that the praying the formula is without meaning.
 
 prayers to god for other purposes (desperation, anger, thanksgiving,
 etc.) don't seem to be in this category at all, whether uttered by
 christian or non-christian, whether b.c. or a.d. (that's b.c.e. or
 c.e. for you p.c. :-).  i don't see anything in christ's words to
 contradict the idea that god deals with all prayers according to his
 omniscience and grace.
 
 van kelly
 vek@research.att.com
 
 
 the above opinions are my own, and not those of at&t.
 