
 in article <apr.11.01.02.39.1993.17790@athos.rutgers.edu> atterlep@vela.acs.oakland.edu (cardinal ximenez) writes:
 
 >  religious people are threatened by science because it has been systematically
 >removing the physical "proofs" of god's existence.  as time goes on we have to
 >rely more and more on faith and the spiritual world to relate to god becuase
 >science is removing our props.  i don't think this is a bad thing.
 >
 	first of all, i resent your assumption that you know why i
 am threatened by science, or even that i am threatened at all,
 although i admit the latter.  the reason i am threatened by science
 has nothing to do with my need for proof of my lord's existence--
 god reveals himself in many ways, including, to some degree,
 science.
 
 	my problem with science is that often it allows us to
 assume we know what is best for ourselves.  god endowed us
 with the ability to produce life through sexual relations,
 for example, but he did not make that availible to everyone.
 does that mean that if science can over-ride god's decision
 through alterations, that god wills for us to have the power
 to decide who should and should not be able to have 
 children?  should men be allowed to have babies, if that
 is made possible.
 
 	people have always had the ability to end lives
 unnaturally, and soon may have the ability to bring lives
 into the world unnaturally.  the closest thing to artificially
 created life is artificially created death, and as god
 has reserved judgement about when people should die to
 himself, i believe we should rely on god's wisdom about how
 people should be brought in to the world.
 
 	this is not to say that i reject all forms of
 medical treatment, however.  treatment that alleviates
 pain, or prevents pain from occuring, is perfectly
 acceptable, i believe, as it was acceptable for jesus
 to cure the sick.  however, treatment that merely 
 prolongs life for no reason, or makes unnecessary 
 alterations to the body for mere aesthetic purposes,  
 go too far.  are we not happy with the beauty god
 gave us?
 
 	i cannot draw a solid line regarding where i
 would approve of scientific study, and where i would not,
 but i will say this:  before one experiments with the
 universe to find out all its secrets, one should ask
 why they want this knowledge.  before one alters the body
 they have been given, they should ask themseles why their
 body is not satisfactory too them as it is.  i cannot
 make any general rules that will cover all the cases, but
 i will say that each person should pray for guidance
 when trying to unravel the mysteries of the universe, and
 should cease their unravelling if they have reason to 
 believe their search is displeasing to god.
 
 			---malcusco
 