
 
                       the  n a t i o n a l  d a y
                                   o f
                             p  r  a  y  e  r
 
                            6  m a y  1 9 9 3
 
            immmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm;
            :                                                :
            :           join america in prayer to:           :
            :                                                :
            :     * acknowledge our dependence upon god;     :
            :                                                :
            :     * give thanks for his many blessings;      :
            :                                                :
            :     * ask god to guide our leaders and to      :
            :       bring healing, reconciliation and whole- :
            :       ness to our nation and all its people.   :
            :                                                :
            hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm<
 
                       our founding fathers said...
 
      george washington:  "i now make it my earnest prayer that god...
          (a.d. 1783)     would be pleased to dispose us all to do
                          justice, to love mercy, and to demean
      ourselves with charity and humility, and a pacific temper of mind,
      which were characteristics of the divine author of our blessed
      religion, and without an humble imitation of whose example in
      these things, we can never hope to be a happy nation."
 
 
      john adams:  "it must be felt that there is no national security
      (a.d. 1853)  but in the nation's humble, acknowledged dependence
                   upon god and his overruling providence."
 
 
      abraham lincoln:   "it is the duty of nations, as well as of men,
        (a.d. 1863)      to own their dependence upon the overruling
                         power of god, to confess their sins and
      transgressions...and to recognize the sublime truth, announced in
      the holy scriptures and proven by all history, that those nations
      only are blessed whose god is the lord..."
 
 
      note:  you can join with people in your area in observing the
             national day of prayer.  to learn who is affiliated with
             the concerts of prayer group in your area, contact:
 
                      mr. barry garred, coordinator
                      p.o. box 6637
                      springdale, arkansas 72766
                      voice:  (501) 756-8421
                      fax:  (501) 756-0131
 