
 in article <apr.13.00.08.27.1993.28403@athos.rutgers.edu> creps@lateran.ucs.indiana.edu (stephen a. creps) writes:
 >in article <apr.10.05.30.16.1993.14313@athos.rutgers.edu> jemurray@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (john e murray) writes:
 >
 >   on palm sunday at our parish, we were "invited" to take the role of
 >jesus in the passion.  i declined to participate.  last year at the
 >liturgy meeting i pointed out how we crucify christ by our sins, so
 >therefore it is appropriate that we retain the role of the crowd, but
 >to no avail.
 >
 >>musicians, readers, and so on.  new things are introduced in the course of the
 >>liturgy and since no one knows what's happening, the new things have to be
 >>explained, and pretty soon instead of _doing_ a lot of the mass we're just
 >>sitting there listening (or spacing out, in my case) to how the mass is about
 >>to be done.  in my mind, i lay the blame on liturgy committees made up of lay
 >>people to be aware of the lord's presence.
 
 as a former catholic and now as a very active lutheran - it is some of the
 "innovations" of the mass which made me leave the catholic church and return
 to the more traditional catholic chuch - the lutherans.
 
 i spent many years as a lector reading the passion parts as appropriate in
 the catholic church and i found it very meaningful.  our lutheran parish just
 instituted the "tenebrae" service for good friday and i was the lector for 
 a paraphrased passion which was exceptional.  i heard and learned things
 that i have previously overlooked in the gospels - yet those "facts" were
 always there.  as a matter of interest, the pastor and i were talking about
 the differences between the rc and lutheran church during holy week over
 breakfast easter sunday.
 >
 >   as a member of a liturgy committee, i can tell you that the problem
 >is certain people dominating, who want to try out all kinds of
 >innovations.  the priests don't seem even to _want_ to make any
 >decisions of their own in many cases.  i guess it's easier to "try
 >something new" than it is to refuse to allow it.
 
 my wife is the member of the liturgy committee in the family (called music
 and worship at our church).  our pastor does have control of this committee
 but listens very carefully to the committee's suggestions.  it needs a strong
 hand to lead and guide, to keep the intent and the message clear and strong
 as it should be through lent and the rest of the liturgical year.  additional
 reason for my leaving the catholic faith - lack of any selfless spiritual
 guidance by priests in my parishes.  aka "wishy-washy".
  
 as you may gather from my comments, i feel that it is very important, ir-
 regardless of denominational guidelines, to have a service/mass which promotes
 the true reason that we are gathered there.  i am quite comfortable in a
 traditional mass, with receiving holy communion on the tongue, the sacrament
 of penance (not reconciliation), stations of the cross, so on and so forth.
 the reason other types of masses and parishes exist is because these feelings
 are not shared by everyone.
 
 i want more people to attend church and to find the lord, but i don't want 
 them attending a show.  it's not.  my church works hard to have a meaningful
 service during lent on wednesdays, but follow traditional lutheran book of
 worship guidelines.  where things are changed or omitted during lent (such
 as the hymn of praise) it is noted so that we are aware of the reasons that it
 is not there.
 
 quite frankly, it is very hard for a non-catholic to go to a mass and "fit in".
 my dear wife never could (former methodist).  and holy week masses and vigils
 would intimidate the daylights out of a non-catholic.  those catholics who
 have beared with me this far understand what i mean.
 
 please keep in mind why we are there - to gather together in worship.  not
 to worry about how something is done or not done.  if there is something
 wrong that you feel needs addressing, by all means talk to your priest or
 pastor.  i have only ever met one who wouldn't listen.  they are there to 
 provide spiritual guidance and to help.  use them.  my differences with
 the catholic church are much more fundamental - but my decision to change
 faiths was done with prayer, intervention, and sessions with priests and
 ministers.
 
 in christ,
 kershner
 -- 
 kershner wyatt
 kwyatt@ccscola.columbiasc.ncr.com
 
 my opinions are my own and aren't necessarily my employer's.
 