
 hi,
 
 i am new to this newsgroup, and also fairly new to christianity. i was
 raised as a unitarian and have spent the better part of my life as an
 agnostic, but recently i have developed the firm conviction that the
 christian message is correct and i have accepted jesus into my life. i am
 happy, but i realize i am very ignorant about much of the bible and
 quite possibly about what christians should hold as true. this i am trying
 to rectify (by reading the bible of course), but it would be helpful
 to also read a good interpretation/commentary on the bible or other
 relevant aspects of the christian faith. one of my questions i would
 like to ask is - can anyone recommend a good reading list of theological
 works intended for a lay person?
 
 i have another question i would like to ask. i am not yet affiliated
 with any one congregation. aside from matters of taste, what criteria
 should one use in choosing a church? i don't really know the difference
 between the various protestant denominations.
 
 thanks for reading my post. 
 
 sincerely,
 
 steve hoskins
 
 [aside from a commentary, you might also want to consider an
 introduction.  these are books intended for use in undergraduate bible
 courses.  they give historical background, discussion of literary
 styles, etc.  and generally they have good bibligraphies for further
 reading.  i typically recommend kee, froehlich and young's nt
 introduction.  there are also some good one-volume commentaries.  they
 often have background articles that are helpful.  probably the best
 recommendation these days would be harper's bible commentary.  (i
 think there may be a couple of books with this title.  this is a
 fairly recent one, like about 1990, done in cooperation with the
 society for biblical criticism.)  if you are committed to inerrancy,
 you will probably prefer something more conservative.  i don't read a
 lot of conservative books, but a commentary i looked at by donald
 guthrie looked rather good.  he has a nt introduction, and he's also
 editor of eerdman's bible commentary.  --clh]
 