
 carol alvin (caralv@caralv.auto-trol.com) wrote:
 
 > in the new testament (sorry i don't have a bible at work, and can't
 > provide a reference), women are instructed to be silent and cover
 > their heads in church.  now, this is scripture.  by your definition, 
 > this is truth and therefore absolute.  
 >
 >do women in your church speak?  do they cover their heads?  if all 
 >scripture is absolute truth, it seems to me that women speaking in and 
 >coming to church with bare heads should be intolerable to evangelicals.  
 >yet, clearly, women do speak in evangelical churches and come with bare 
 >heads.  (at least this was the case in the evangelical churches i grew 
 >up in.)
 >
 >evangelicals are clearly not taking this particular part of scripture 
 >to be absolute truth.  (and there are plenty of other examples.)
 >can you reconcile this?
 
 the problem you see here is that some christians claim things about
 the bible which they don't actually believe or practice. i've known
 all sorts of christians, ranging from the trendiest of liberals to
 the fire-breathing fundamentalists, and although many on the 
 conservative side of the christian faith do claim that the bible is
 a (perhaps *the*) source of absolute truth, i don't know of anyone
 who treats it as anything other than a valuable part of a living tradition.
 while i am not a roman catholic, i believe this is close to the official
 position of the rc church (perhaps an rc would like to comment).
 
 the particular practice you refer to will usually be explained in
 terms of the social context of the time. you would think the fact 
 that the conservatives seem to have to break out the tophat-and-cane 
 and give you some big song-and-dance routine about why this 
 (other passages as well) aren't directly applicable today would 
 show them that what they claim about the bible and what they 
 actually practice are two different things, but mostly it doens't.
 
 while this thread is supposed to be about the arrogance of christians,
 i would suggest that some of the problem is really hypocrasy, in this
 case, making claims about the bible which the claimants don't actually
 put into practice. but if we step back from the name-calling and
 look at what people are attempting to say, we see that they are trying
 to express very concisely the unique place the bible holds within the
 christian faith. so when people use such words or phrases as "word of
 god", "inerrant", "infallibale", "the manufacturer's handbook", "the
 only rule of faith and practice in the church today" to describe the
 bible, we should try to hear what they are saying and not just look at
 the mere words they use. some of the above descriptions are demostratably
 false and others are self-contradictory, but in my experience people are
 generally pretty good at picking out the intention of the speaker even
 when the speaker's words are at variance with their intentions. a biblical
 example is from the garden of eden where god asks "where are you?" and adam
 explains that he was naked and afraid and hid himself. if adam had
 answered god's words he would have said something like "i'm here in this
 tree." the problem seems to arise when christians insist that these
 words are indeed accurate reflections of their beleif. most people
 have not made a determined effort to work out their own understanding of
 the place of the bible within their own faith and so rely on the phrases
 and explanations that others use.
 
 i hope this helps.
 --
                                                                      ___
 bill rea                                                            (o o)
 -------------------------------------------------------------------w--u--w---
 | bill rea, computer services centre, | e-mail   b.rea@csc.canterbury.ac.nz |
 | university of canterbury,           | or     cctr114@csc.canterbury.ac.nz |
 | christchurch, new zealand           | phone (03)-642-331 fax (03)-642-999 |
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 