
 in article <apr.15.00.57.56.1993.28857@athos.rutgers.edu> reedr@cgsvax.claremont.edu writes:
 >
 >> i disagree with your claim that jews were not evangelistic (except in
 >> the narrow sense of the word).  jewish proselytism was widespread.
 >> there are numerous accounts of jewish proselytism, both in the new
 >> testament and in roman and greek documents of the day.
 
 i am not so sure of jewish proselytism then, but i would like to relate
 an account of a recent dinner i had with jews a few months ago.
 
 the dinner was instigated by the aunt of the hostess, whom i had met while
 visiting my wife in galveston last october.  the dear old aunt (now 
 deceased) was very proud of her jewish heritage, although not especially
 devout.  her parents were both murdered in nazi concentration camps in
 austria during wwii because they were jewish.  while conversing with her
 about politics, world affairs and religion, she remarked that it would 
 be a good idea for me to visit her niece on my return to atlanta.
 
 within two days of returning to atlanta, her niece called to invite
 me over for dinner with her husband.  i went, not knowing really what to
 expect, other than stimulating conversation and fellowship.  what i got,
 however, was rather unexpected.  the thrust of the evening's discussion
 was to condemn the reagan-bush policies prohibiting abortion counseling 
 in federally funded family planning clinics, prohibiting the sterilization
 of minorities on welfare here and in puerto rico, on
 the ban on fetal tissue research, and against the mexico city policy,
 "which denies u.s. foreign aid to programs overseas that promote abortion."
 
 the crux of their position was to place the blame for the problems of
 "overpopulation," rampant domestic crime, african starvation, unwed
 mothers, etc., on christianity, rather on the fall of adam.  now, this
 is not what i had to come to talk about.  but every time i tried to 
 bring up the subject of judaism, they would condemn jews for jesus
 and admonish me against converting to judaism, "because it involves
 too much study and effort."  and i did not even raise the prospect, nor
 try to convert them to the truth of christ!  there was certainly no
 jewish proselytism going on there.
 
 and again, last november i toured a "traditional" jewish synagogue and was
 subjected to a 30-minute harangue against jesus and christianity in
 general.  i realize that these are two isolated incidents, and that the
 best supervisor i ever had at work is jewish, but from my experience,
 the modern jew is not known for his proselytism.
 
  
 -- 
 boundary
 
 no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra; no he
 venido a traer la paz, sino la guerra (mateo 10:34, vulgata latina) 
 