
 dleonar@andy.bgsu.edu (pixie) writes:
 >                                       unfaithfully yours,
 >                                       pixie
 >     p.s.  if you do sincerely believe that a god exists, why do you follow
 >it blindly?  
 >     do the words "question authority" mean anything to you?
 >     i defy any theist to reply.      
 
 dear defiant (or unfaithful or pixie):
 
 i will take up the challenge to reply, as i am a theist.
 
 the foundation for faith in god is reason, without which the existence
 of god could not be proven.  that his existence can be proven by reason
 is indisputable (cf. my short treatise, "traditional proofs for the 
 existence of god," and summa theologica).
 
 now, given that god exists, and that his existence can be proven by reason,
 i assert that his commands must be followed blindly, although in our fallen
 condition we must always have some measure of doubt about our faith.  why?
 
 because god is the first cause of all things, the first mover of matter,
 the independent thing that requires nothing else for its existence, the
 measure of all that is perfect, and the essential being who gives order
 to the universe (logos).
 
 i next assert that god is all good.  if this is so, then that which is
 contrary to the will of god is evil; i.e., the absence of the good.  and,
 since god can never contradict himself, then by his promise of a savior
 as early as the protoevangelium of genesis 3:5, god instructs that because
 a human (adam) was first responsible for man's alienation from the source
 of all good, a man would be required to act to restore the friendship.
 thus god became incarnate in the person of the messiah.
 
 now this messiah claimed that he is the truth (john 14:6).  if this claim
 is true, then we are bound by reason to follow him, who is truth incarnate.
 
 you next seem to have a problem with authority.  have you tried the united
 states marine corps yet?  i can tell you first-hand that it is an excellent
 instructor in authority.  if you have not yet had the privilege, i will
 reply that the authority which is truth incarnate may never be questioned,
 and thus must be followed blindly.  one may not deny the truth.  for
 example, when the proverbial apple fell on isaac newton's head, he could
 have denied that it happened, but he did not.  the laws of physics must
 be obeyed whether a human likes them or not.  they are true. 
 
 therefore, the authority which is truth may not be denied.
 
 qed
  
 -- 
 boundary
 
 no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra; no he
 venido a traer la paz, sino la guerra (mateo 10:34, vulgata latina) 
 