
 for src
 
 in most languages, the feast of the resurrection of our lord is
 known as the pasch, or pasque, or some variation thereof, a word
 which comes from the hebrew pesach, meaning "passover." in english,
 german, and a few related languages, however, it is known as easter,
 or some variation thereof, and questions have been asked about the
 origin of this term.
 
 one explanation is that given by the venerable bede in his de
 ratione temporum 1:5, where he derives the word from the name of an
 anglo-saxon goddess of spring called eastre. bede is a great
 scholar, and it is natural to take his word for it. but he lived
 673-735, and augustine began preaching in kent in 597. the use of
 the word easter to describe the feast would have been well
 established before the birth of bede and probably before the birth
 of anyone he might have discussed the subject with. it seems likely
 that his derivation is just a guess, based on his awareness that
 there had been an anglo-saxon goddess of spring bearing that name,
 and the resemblance of the words. thus, if the said resemblance
 (surely it is not surprising that a personification of spring should
 have a name similar to the word for dawn) is not in istelf
 convincing, the testimony (or rather the conjecture) by bede does
 not make it more so.
 
 assuming that bede was right, that would not justify saying that the
 christian celebration (which, after all, had been going on for some
 centuries before the name easter was applied to it) has pagan roots.
 it would simply mean that the anglo-saxons, upon becoming christians
 and beginning to celebrate the resurrection by a festival every
 spring, called it by the name that to them meant simply "spring
 festival."
 
 however, bede's is not the only theory that has been proposed.  j
 knoblech, in "die sprach," zeitschrift fuer sprachwissenschaft 5
 (vienna, 1959) 27-45, offers the following derivation:
 
 among latin-speaking christians, the week beginning with the feast
 of the resurrection was known as "hebdomada alba" (white week),
 since the newly-baptized christians were accustomed to wear their
 white baptismal robes throughout that week. sometimes the week was
 referred to simply as "albae." translaters rendering this into
 german mistook it for the plural of "alba," meaning "dawn." they
 accordingly rendered it as eostarum, which is old high german for
 "dawn." this gave rise to the form easter in english.
 
  yours,
  james kiefer
 
 
 [no, i'm not interested in restarting discussions of the propriety
 of celebrating easter.  however this seems like it contains enough
 interesting information that people might like to see it.  --clh]
 