
 hi... i'm not a religious guy so dont take this as some kinda flame (thanx
 in advance)
 
 i want to know why there are so many different versions of the bible? there
 is this version of the bible i have read about and on the front page it says:
 "....contains inaccurate data and inconsistencies."   
 
 					thanx in advance... shaz....
 
 [i'm not sure quite what you mean by many different versions.
 the primary distinction in versions you see today is in the style
 of the translation.  it's pretty unusual to see significant
 differences in meaning.  there are a few differences in the underlying
 text.  that's because before printing, manuscripts were copied by
 hand.  slight differences resulted.  there are enough manuscripts
 around that scholars can do a pretty good job of recreating the
 original, but there are some uncertainties.  fortunately, they are
 generally at the level of minor differences in wording.  there are
 something like 3 or 4 places where whole sentences are involved,
 but with recent discoveries of older manuscripts, i don't think there's
 much uncertainly about those cases.  as far as i know, no christians
 believe that the process of copying manuscripts or the process of
 translating is free of error.  but i also don't think there's
 enough uncertainty in establishing the text or translating it that
 it has much practical effect.
 
 whether the bible contains inaccurate data and inconsistences is a hot
 topic of debate here.  many christians deny it.  some accept it
 (though most would say that the inaccuracies involved are on details
 that don't affect the faith).  but this has nothing to do with there
 being multiple versions.  the supposed inconsistences can be found in
 all the versions.  i'm surprised to find a reference to this on the
 title page though.  what version are you talking about?  i've been
 referring to major scholarly translations.  these are what get
 referenced in postings here and elsewhere.  there have certainly been
 editions that are (to be kind) less widely accepted.  this includes
 everything from reconstructions that combine parallel accounts into
 single narrations, to editions that omit material that the editor
 objects to for some reason or the other.  the copyright on the bible
 has long since expired, so there nothing to stop people from making
 editions that do whatever wierd thing they want.  however the editions
 that are widely used are carefully prepared by groups of scholars from
 a variety of backgrounds, with lots of crosschecks.  i could imagine
 one of the lesser-known editions claiming to have fixed up all
 inaccurate data and inconsistencies.  but if so, it's not any edition
 that's widely used.  the widely used ones leave the text as is.
 (weeeeelllllll, almost as is.  it's been alleged that a few
 translations have fudged a word or two here and there to minimize
 inconsistencies.  because translation is not an exact science, there
 are always going to be differences in opinion over which word is best,
 i'm afraid.)
 
 --clh]
 