
 the people who post to this particular newsgroup are either too cowardly,
 too arrogant, or too apathetic to discuss this issue since i have yet to
 see any discussion grace my computer screen.  while it holds particular
 interest to the african-american community, everyone has something to gain
 from discussing it.  as any knowledgable person should know, christianity
 has been used in this country to tighten the spiritual, emotional, & mental
 hold slavery placed on the minds, souls & hearts of african-americans. 
 this was most effectively done by the display of white icons of jesus in
 slave churches to encourage the godly superiority of slaveowners.  it
 wasn't enough that the slaveowner was your provider, but he was also your
 god, to be looked upon with unconditional love & loyalty and to be
 worshipped with great pride.  but how culturally & biblically accurate are
 these icons?  pictures & statues of a black jesus have been found in
 european countries, as that of a black madonna.  but what about biblical
 physical descriptions of jesus, his hair being compared to that of wool,
 his feet to that of brass?  and think about the area of the world where all
 biblical actions took place.  i welcome all intelligent commentary on this
 important topic; flamers need not reply.
 
 sherlette 
 
 p.s.  i expect at least this type of response:  "it doesn't matter what
 color his skin was; his actions & what he did for mankind are what counts."
  this is true; i am not questioning this.  but he walked the earth for 3
 decades as a human; this part of his existence intrigues me.  and as for
 saying that "it doesn't matter..."  to a member of a physically emancipated
 people who is still struggling for mental emancipation, believe me:  it
 matters.
 
 [the general attack on the members of this group seems unjustified.
 there has been discussion of this issue in the past.  we can't discuss
 everything at once, so the fact that some specific thing hasn't been
 discussed recently shouldn't be taken as a sign of general cowardice,
 arrogance or apathy.  in past discussions no one has been outraged by
 suggestions that jesus could be black (and it has been suggested by a
 few scholars), but the concensus is that he was most likely semitic.
 as you probably know, there is a tradition that portrayals of jesus in
 art tends to show him as one of the people.  thus you wouldn't be
 surprised to find african art showing him as black, and oriental art
 showing him as oriental.  there are good reasons relating to christian
 devotion to think of him in such a way.  it's also good now and then
 to have that image challenged, and to think of jesus as being a member
 of xxx, where xxx is the group you least respect.  --clh]
 