
 (dean and i write lots and lots about absolute truth and arrogance.)
 
 vbv@r2d2.eeap.cwru.edu (virgilio (dean) b. velasco jr.) writes:
 > i strongly suspect that we are reaching an impasse here, which is why i
 > deign from commenting much further.
 
 i agree that we'll probably never agree, and i'm starting to feel 
 frustrated, and i'm tired of having my conversations with my husband 
 dominated by this topic (just kidding, :-)).
 
 i do have to say, though, that participating in this discussion has been
 a good learning experience for me.  my views on this topic have evolved
 and clarified through this, and i suspect that we may not disagree as 
 much as we think. 
 
 i admit that i'm strongly prejudiced against evangelical christianity,
 and i may not always be rational in my reactions to it.  i grew up
 in ec, and went to an ec college.  it was definitely the wrong place
 for me, and i react strongly to any implication that ec or conservative
 christianity has any sort of stronghold on true christianity.  i shudder 
 when i remember the condescending attitude i had about other christians 
 who didn't adhere to the ec model.
 
 i have come to see that my real objection to this whole notion of 
 absolute truth is the actions i have seen it lead to.  i have had some 
 very bad experiences with evangelical christians claiming to know the 
 truth, and judging me or others based on their belief that they have 
 the answers.  knowing the truth doesn't seem to leave a whole lot of 
 room for others' opinions.
 
 i can accept your belief in absolute truth as long as you* don't try to 
 use that belief to try to force others to comply with it, and you are 
 very careful that you don't hurt others with it.  love your neighbor 
 seems to go totally out the window when one knows the truth and believes 
 that everyone should be living by that truth.  other people have 
 convictions about the truth every bit as strong and sincere as yours, 
 based on careful searching, prayer, and their relationship with god.  
 don't dismiss them because god didn't lead them to the same conclusions 
 as yours.
 
 *this is not directed personally at you, dean.
 
 carol alvin
 caralv@auto-trol.com
 