
 
 	i've heard it said that the accounts we have of christs life and
 ministry in the gospels were actually written many years after the event.
 (about 40 years or so). is this correct?? if so, why the big time delay??
 i know all scripture is inspired of god, so the time of writing is i suppose
 un-important, but i still can't help be curious!
 
 ---------------------------------------------------
 ivan thomas barr 
 
 contact me at u9126619@athmail1.causeway.qub.ac.uk
 
 [the gospels aren't dated, so we can only guess.  luke's prolog is
 about the only thing we have from the author describing his process.
 the prolog sounds like luke is from the next generation, and had to do
 some investigating.  there are traditions passed down verbally that
 say a few things about the composition of the gospels.  there are
 debates about how reliable these traditions are.  they certainly don't
 have the status of scripture, yet scholars tend to take some of them
 seriously.  one suggests that mark was based on peter's sermons, and
 was written to preserve them when peter had died or way about to die.
 one tradition about matthew suggests that a collection of jesus words
 may have been made earlier than the current gospels.  
 
 in the ancient world, it was much more common to rely on verbal
 transmission of information.  i think many people would have preferred
 to hear about jesus directly from someone who had known him, and maybe
 even from someone who studied directly under such a person, rather
 than from a book.  thus i suspect that the gospels are largely from a
 period when these people were beginning to die.  scholars generally do
 think there was some written material earlier, which was probably used
 as sources for the existing gospels.
 
 establishing the dates is a complex and technical business.  i have to
 confess that i'm not sure how much reliance i'd put on the methods
 used.  but it's common to think that mark was written first, around 64
 ad., and that all of the gospels were written by the end of the
 century.  a few people vary this by a decade or so one way or the
 other.
 
 --clh]
 