
 ofm responds to a query about reference works:
 
    [aside from a commentary, you might also want to consider an
    introduction.  these are books intended for use in undergraduate bible
    courses.  they give historical background, discussion of literary
    styles, etc.  and generally they have good bibligraphies for further
    reading.  i typically recommend kee, froehlich and young's nt
    introduction...
 
 two other intros to consider:
 
 the "introduction" by ku:mmel is a translation of a strandard nt text.
 the references are slightly dated and the style is somewhat dense, but
 the book contains a wealth of information.
 
 perrin and duling's intro is also very good.  it's somewhat more
 modern than ku:mmel's but not quite so densely packed.  also the
 authors tend to go through the books of the nt in the historical order
 of composition; this gives a very useful perspective on the
 development of the nt.
 
    ... there are also some good one-volume commentaries.  ... probably the
    best recommendation these days would be harper's bible commentary.
 
 a slight dissent: i think the harper's is "ok" but not great.  one
 particular problem i have is that it tends to be pretty skimpy on
 bibliographic material.  my feeling is that it is ok for quick
 look-ups, but not real useful for study in depth (e.g. i keep a copy
 in my office at work).
 
    ... (i think there may be a couple of books with this title...
 
 so far as i know there is the only one book with this exact title
 (james l mays, general editor, harper and row, 1988) although i think
 i recall a (older) series under the name "harper commentaries".  also
 there's a separate harper's bible dictionary (most of my comments on
 the hc also apply to the hbd.)
 
 my favorite one-volume commentary is the "new jerome biblical
 commentary".  the njbc is rather catholic in focus and somewhat biased
 towards the nt.  (the reader can decide for her- or himself whether
 these are pluses or minuses.)  in any case the scholarship is by and
 large excellent.
 
 note: the njbc is a completely reworked, updated version of the
 "jerome biblical commentary", copies of which can still be found on
 sale.
 
 nichael
 