
 [with frank's permission, i have added some information here (and in
 one case changed the order of his contributions) in order to clarify
 the historical relationship of the views.  my comments are based
 primarily on william rusch's historical summary in "the trinitarian
 controversy", fortress.  i'm going to save this as an faq.  --clh]
 
 major views of the trinity
  
 [second century
 
 the writers of the 2nd cent. are important, because they set up much
 of the context for the later discussions.  justin martyr, aristides,
 athenagoras, tatian, and theophilus of antioch are known as the
 "apologists".  their theology has often been described as "logos
 theology".  based strongly on wording in john, they took more or less
 a two-phase approach.  through eternity, the logos was with the
 father, as his mind or thought.  this "immanent word" became
 "expressed" as god revealed himself in history, ultimately in jesus.
 thus jesus' full distinction from the father only became visible in
 history, though the logos had been present in god from eternity.
 rusch regards this view is containing many of the emphases of the
 final orthodox position, but in a form which is less sophisticated,
 because it did not have the technical language to properly deal with
 the eternal plurality in the godhead.
 
 irenaeus held views somewhat similar to the apologists.  however he
 was uncomfortable with the two-stage approach.  he still viewed god as
 one personage, with distinctions that did not become fully visible
 except through his process of self-revelation (the "economy").  the
 distinctions are present in his essential nature.  irenaeus emphasized
 the holy spirit more than the apologists.  irenaeus' views should
 probably be called "economic trinitarianism", though that term is
 normally used (as below) to refer to later developments.
 
 
 third century
 
 --clh]
 
 dynamic monarchianism
  
 source: theodotus
 adherents: paul of samosota, artemon, socinus, modern unitarians
 perception of god's essence: the unity of god denotes both oneness of nature
 and oneness of person. the son and the holy spirit therefore are
 consubstantial with the father's divine essence only as impersonal attributes.
 the divine dunamis came upon the man jesus, but he was not god in the strict
 sense of the word.
 perception of god's subsistence: the notion of a subsistent god is a palpable
 impossibility, since his perfect unity is perfectly indivisible. the
 'diversity' of god is apparent and not real, since the christ event and the
 work of the holy spirit attest only to a dynamic operation within god, not to
 a hypostatic union.
 asignation of deity/eternality:
  father: unique originator of the universe. he is eternal, self-existent, and
 without beginning or end.
  son: a virtuous (but finite) man in whose life god was dynamically present in
 a unique way; christ definitely was not deity though his humanity was deified.
  holy spirit: an impersonal attribute of the godhead. no deity or eternality
 is ascribed to the holy spirit.
 criticism(s): elevates reason above the witness of biblical revelation
 concerning the trinity. categorically denies the deity of christ and of the
 holy spirit, thereby undermining the theological undergirding for the biblical
 doctrine of salvation.
 [in summary, this probably best thought of as not being trinitarianism
 at all.  god is an undifferentiated one.  son and holy spirit are seen
 as simply names for the man jesus and the grace of god active in the
 church.  --clh]
 
  
 modalistic monarchianism
  
 source: praxeas
 adherents: noatus, sabellius, swedenborg, scleiermacher, united pentecostals
 (jesus only)
 perception of god's essence: the unity of god is ultra-simplex. he is
 qualitatively characterized in his essence by one nature and person.  this
 essence may be designated interchangeably as father, son, and holy spirit.
 they are different names for but identical with the unified, simplex god. the
 three names are the three modes by which god reveals himself.
 perception of god's subsistence: the concept of a subsistent god is erroneous
 and confounds the real issue of the phenomenon of god's modalistic manifesting
 of himself. the paradox of a subsisting "three in oneness" is refuted by
 recognizing that god is not three persons but one person with three different
 names and corresponding roles following one another like parts of a drama.
 asignation of deity/eternality:
  father: fully god and fully eternal as the primal mode or manifestation of
 the only unique and unitary god
  son: full deity/eternality ascribed only in the sense of his being another
 mode of the one god and identical with his essence. he is the same god
 manifested in temporal sequence specific to a role (incarnation).
  holy spirit: eternal god only as the tile designates the phase in which the
 one god, in temporal sequence, manifested himself pursuant to the role of
 regeneration and sanctification.
 criticism(s): depersonalizes the godhead. to compensate for its trinitarian
 deficiencies, this view propounds ideas that are clearly heretical. its
 concept of successive manifestations of the godhead cannot account for such
 simultaneous appearances of the three persons as at christ's baptism.
 [rusch comments that evidence on these beliefs is sketchy.  there are
 actually two slightly different groups included: noetus and his
 followers, and sabellius.  noetus was apparently more extreme.
 sabellius followed him, and attempted to use some features of economic
 trinitarianism to create a more sophisticated view.  unfortunately,
 information about sabellius comes from a century later, and there
 seems to be some confusion between him and marcellus of ancyra. --clh]
  
 [i've moved the following description to be with the other
 third-century views.  it originally appeared near the end.  --clh]
 
 "economic" trinitarianism
  
 source: hippolytus, tertullian
 adherents: various "neo-economic" trinitarians
 perception of god's essence: the godhead is characterized by triunity: father,
 son, and holy spirit are the three manifestations of one identical,
 indivisible substance. the perfect unity and consubstantiality are especially
 comprehended in such manifest triadic deeds as creation and redemption.
 perception of god's subsistence: subsistence within the godhead is articulated
 by means of such terms as "distinction" and "distribution" dispelling
 effectively the notion of separateness or division.
 asignation of deity/eternality:
 the equal deity of father, son, and holy spirit is clearly elucidated in
 observation of the simultaneous relational/operational features of the
 godhead. co-eternality, at times, does not intelligibly surface in this
 ambiguous view, but it seems to be a logical implication.
 criticism(s): is more tentative and ambiguous in its treatment of the
 relational aspect of the trinity.
 [note that this is a development of the apologists and irenaeus, as
 mentioned above.  as with them, the threeness is visible primarily in
 the various ways that god revealed himself in history.  however they
 did say that this is a manifestation of a plurality that is somehow
 present in the godhead from the beginning.  tertullian talks of
 the father, son, and holy spirit as being three that are one in
 substance.  many people regard this view as being essentially
 orthodox, but with less developed philosophical categories.  --clh]
 
 [origen, developing further an approach started by clement, attempted
 to apply neo-platonism to christian thought.  he set many of the terms
 of the coming battle.  in platonic fashion, he sees the son as a
 mediator, mediating between the absolute one of god and the plurality
 of creating beings.  the son is generated, but he is "eternally
 generated".  that is, the relationship between father and son is
 eternal.  it cannot be said that "there was once when he was not" (a
 phrase that will haunt the discussion for centuries).  having the son
 is intrinsic to his concept of god.  the father and son are described
 as separate "hypostases", though this may not have quite the meaning
 of separate subsistence that it had in some contexts.  the union is
 one of love and action, but there is some reason to think that he may
 have used the term homoousios ("of the same substance").  the holy
 spirit is also an active, personal substance, originated by the father
 through the son.  origen's intent is trinitarian, not tritheistic, but
 he pushes things in the direction of separateness.
 
 
 fourth century
 
 --clh]
 
 subordinationism  [often called arianism --clh]
  
 source: arius
 major adherents: modern jehovah's witnesses, and several other lesser known
 cults
 perception of god's essence: the inherent oneness of god's nature is properly
 identifiable with the father only. the son and the holy spirit are discreet
 entities who do not share the divine essence.
 perception of god's subsistence: the unipersonal essence of god precludes the
 concept of divine subsistence with a godhead. "threeness in oneness" is self-
 contradictory and violates biblical principles of a monotheistic god.
 asignation of deity/eternality:
  father: the only one, unbegotten god who is eternal and without beginning.
  son: a created being and therefore not eternal. though he is to be venerated,
 he is not of the divine essence.
  holy spirit: a nonpersonal, noneternal emanation of the father. he is viewed
 as an influence, an expression of god.  deity is not ascribed to him.
 criticism(s): it is at variance with abundant scriptural testimony respecting
 the deity of both christ and the holy spirit. its hierarchial concept likewise
 asserts three essentially separate persons with regard to the father, christ,
 and the holy spirit. this results in a totally confused soteriology.
 [note also that in most versions of this view, the son is not fully
 human either.  he is supernatural and sinless.  that distinguishes this
 view from adoptionism.  --clh]
  
 orthodox trinitarianism
  
 source: athanasius
 adherents: basil, gregory of nyssa, gregory of nazianzus, augustine, thomas
 aquinas, luther, calvin, contemporary orthodox christianity
 perception of god's essence: god's being is perfectly unified and simplex: of
 one essence.  this essence of deity is held in common by father, son, and holy
 spirit. the three persons are consubstantial, coinherent, co-equal, and co-
 eternal.
 perception of god's subsistence: the divine subsistence is said to occur in
 three modes of being or hypostases. as such, the godhead exists "undivided in
 divided persons." this view contemplates an identity in nature and cooperation
 in function without the denial of distinctions of persons in the godhead.
 asignation of deity/eternality:
 in its final distillation, this view unhesitatingly sets forth father, son,
 and holy spirit as co-equal and co-eternal in the godhead with regard to both
 the divine essence and function.
 criticism(s): the only shortcoming has to do with the limitations inherent in
 human language and thought itself: the impossibility of totally describing the
 ineffable mystery of "three in oneness."
 [at least in the 4th cent, there were several different approaches, all
 of which fit the description here, and all regarded as orthodox, but which
 are somewhat different in detail.  nicea was originally held to respond
 to arius.  arius can be thought of as carrying origen's thought a bit
 too far, to the point of making the son a separate entity.  in general
 the east tended to take an approach based on origen's, and it was hard
 to get acceptance of nicea in the east.  its final acceptance was
 based on the work of athanasius with the cappadocians: gregory of nyssa and
 gregory of nazianzus, among others.  while starting with three,
 they show that their unity in nature and and action is such that one
 must think of them as being a single god.  this allowed the council
 of constantinople, in 381, to get wide agreement on the idea of
 three hypostatese and one ousia.  --clh]
 
 adapted from _charts of christian theology and doctrine_, by h. wayne house.
 
 
 frank
 -- 
 "if one wished to contend with him, he could not answer him one time out
  of a thousand."  job 9:3
 