
 reply-to: pwhite@empros.com
 in article <apr.15.00.58.29.1993.28900@athos.rutgers.edu>, 18669@bach.udel.edu (steven r hoskins) writes:
  
 |> i have another question i would like to ask. i am not yet affiliated
 |> with any one congregation. aside from matters of taste, what criteria
 |> should one use in choosing a church? i don't really know the difference
 |> between the various protestant denominations.
  
 here in america people tend to think of choosing a church much like they
 think of choosing a car or a country club. what i mean is that our 
 culture is such that we tend towards satisfying our own wants rather
 than considering things with others in mind and not making prayer 
 an initial and primary part of the decision process. people tend to
 treat church as they would a club and when something is less than to
 their liking, off they go to another one.
 
 i think that scripture presents the idea that god takes a different 
 perspective on the "church choosing process". it seems to me from 1cor 12
 that god doesn't subscribe to the idea of us choosing a church at all
 but that he places us in the body as he wants us. so, i think a better
 question is not how do i choose a church but how do i figure out where
 god is trying to place me.
 
 if a person was instrumental in leading you to christ, the church they
 go to is a logical first choice. you have been born into the family of
 god. people should hop around from church to church as often as they
 hop from natural family to family.
 
 if you met the lord on your own (so to speak) there may not be an 
 easily identifiable church to try for starters. here you are more
 like an orphan. prayerfully go and "leave yourself on a few doorsteps"
 and see if anyplace feels like home. 
 
 i wouldn't expect that god want to place you in a church where you
 have difficulty fitting in with the people, but on the other hand
 there are no perfect churches. if you have an attitude of looking
 for problems you will both find them and make them. on the other hand
 if you have an attitude of love and committment, you will spread that
 wherever you go. 
 
 in general, i think that god will try to place you in a church that
 talks about the lord in the way that you have come to know him and is
 expanding on that base.
 -- 
 peter white
 disclaimer: none of what is written necessarily reflects 
      			a view of my company.
 	phil    i want to know christ and the power of his
 	3:10 	resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in
 	niv		his sufferings, becoming like him in his death	
 