
 dlecoint@garnet.acns.fsu.edu (darius_lecointe) writes:
 
 >i find it interesting that cls never answered any of the questions posed. 
 >then he goes on the make statements which make me shudder.  he has
 >established a two-tiered god.  one set of rules for the jews (his people)
 >and another set for the saved gentiles (his people).  why would god
 >discriminate?  does the jew who accepts jesus now have to live under the
 >gentile rules.
 > 
 >god has one set of rules for all his people.  paul was never against the
 >law.  in fact he says repeatedly that faith establishes rather that annuls
 >the law.  paul's point is germane to both jews and greeks.  the law can
 >never be used as an instrument of salvation.  and please do not combine
 >the ceremonial and moral laws in one.
 > 
 >in matt 5:14-19 christ plainly says what he came to do and you say he was
 >only saying that for the jews's benefit.  your christ must be a
 >politician, speaking from both sides of his mouth.  as paul said, "i have
 >not so learned christ."  forget all the theology, just do what jesus says.
 > your excuses will not hold up in a court of law on earth, far less in
 >god's judgement hall.
 
 pardon me for being a little confused, but at the beginning of your second 
 paragraph, you say, "god has one set of rules for all his people," yet at the 
 end of the same paragraph you declare, "please do not combine the ceremonial 
 and moral laws in one."  not only do i not understand where in the bible you 
 find the declaration that there are 2 laws (ceremonial and moral), but i am 
 also unclear on whether you think it is bad to have 2 sets of laws in the first 
 place.  if it's bad to have 2 sets of laws, how can there be a ceremonial law 
 that is different from the moral law (and vice versa)?
 
 i would also be interested in your comments on the passage in i cor. 10:1-16, 
 where paul teaches different rules for covering you head while praying 
 depending on whether you are a man or a woman.  do you think the apostles can 
 prescribe different sets of rules for men and women?  if so, then why not for 
 jews and gentiles?  also, why did paul, who was so opposed to circumcising 
 gentiles, voluntarily circumcise timothy?
 
 - mark
 