
 despite my trendy, liberal, feminist tendencies and the fact
 that i basically agree with what you are saying i will rebut:
 
 (dr nancy's sweetie) writes:
 > (chris mussack) writes:
 > > for all those people who insist i question authority: why?
 > ...
 > authorities sometimes tell people to do evil things.  people who "just
 > follow orders" have tortured and killed others in very large numbers,
 > and protest their innocence afterwards.
  
 the basic question here is "how do i know what i am supposed to do?"
 this is true in every situation that comes up. some people do not
 think about it at all and merely follow their impulses. i claim
 that is just as dangerous as "following authority". i could site
 sexually transmitted diseases, drug abuse, all manner of criminal
 activity, the savings and loan scandal, car accidents, eggs thrown
 at my house, all are examples of people not "following authority".
 i could easily argue that in the evil examples you gave the 
 problem was a leader not following _his_ authority and doing what 
 he wanted. of course, where is the top of the chain? therein lies 
 our search.
  
 > when your authority starts telling you to do things, you should ask
 > questions.  except for situations of pressing need ("i said shut the
 > hatch because the submarine is filling with water!"), any reasonable
 > authority should be able to give at least some justification that you
 > can understand.
 
 i don't think it's as simple as you are claiming. "pressing need" is
 ambiguous. should i recycle or not? 
  
 realize that i have four kids who, despite being very precocious 
 of course, are very tiring with their constant lack of understanding
 the tremendous knowledge i wish to impart to them.
 
 > just be sure to listen when authority answers.
 
 ahh! an ironic ending.
  
 the irony i was implying in my initial pithy retort to the bumper 
 sticker cliche "question authority" was that i was questioning 
 the authority of the person telling me to question authority.
 it seems there is a certain segment of society that finds meaning
 only in being different, only in rebelling, forsaking everything
 for the sake of freedom. i question their integrity and fortitude. 
 there is another freedom that comes from doing a task correctly.
 different people are at different levels of development in different
 areas. part of the challenge of life is to find the right authorities
 to follow, we can't know everything about everything. often 
 when learning a new skill or subject i will follow the teacher,
 perhaps blindly. only when i have learned enough to ask appropriate
 questions should i question him, only when i have developed
 my skills enough should i challenge him. once again, how do i know
 when i get to those stages?
 
 if you have to be told to question authority, perhaps you shouldn't.
 
 chris mussack
 (a good comedian should never have to explain his jokes.)
 