
 in article <apr.23.02.55.31.1993.3123@geneva.rutgers.edu> tbrent@ecn.purdue.edu (timothy j brent) writes:
 >i have stated before that i do not consider myself an atheist, but 
 >definitely do not believe in the christian god.  the recent discussion
 >about atheists and hell, combined with a post to another group (to the
 >effect of 'you will all go to hell') has me interested in the consensus 
 >as to how a god might judge men.  as a catholic, i was told that a jew,
 >buddhist, etc. might go to heaven, but obviously some people do not
 >believe this.  even more see atheists and pagans (i assume i would be 
 >lumped into this category) to be hellbound.  i know you believe only
 >god can judge, and i do not ask you to, just for your opinions.
 
 dear tim:
 
 you say that you were a "catholic," but if you do not believe in the christian
 god (i suppose that means the god of the bible) and publicly state this,   
 you are in all probability not a roman catholic.  "public heretics, even
 those who err in good faith (material heretics), do not belong to the body
 of the church" (fundamentals of catholic dogma, 1960, ludwig ott, p. 311).
 
 all is not lost, however, as you still might belong spiritually to the
 church by your desire to belong to it.  as you said, only god can judge
 the condition of a man's soul.  about judgment, on the other hand, st. paul 
 1 cor 5:12) urges christians to judge their fellow christians. 
 following the apostle's teaching, i judge that you should reconsider   
 returning to the christian fold and embrace the god of abraham, isaac,
 and jacob.  he is the god who lives.  
 
 concerning what you were told about non-believers when you were a catholic,
 that is true.  as i have posted before, vatican ii (lumen gentium, ii,   
 n. 16) teaches: "those who, through no fault of their own, do not know
 the gospel of christ or his chruch, but who nevertheless seek god with a
 sincere heart, and moved by grace, try in their actions to do his will
 as they know it through the dictates of their conscience - those too may
 achieve eternal salvation."  
 
 responding to your solicitation for opinions on the thinking processes
 of god, the best i can do is refer you to scripture.  scripture is one
 of the best sources for learning what can be known about god.  
 
 stick with the best.
 -- 
 boundary, the catechist 
 
 no teneis que pensar que yo haya venido a traer la paz a la tierra; no he
 venido a traer la paz, sino la guerra (mateo 10:34, tr. esp. vulgata latina) 
 