
 the following is a survey we are conducting for a term project in a philosophy
 class. it is not meant to give us anything interesting statistically; we want
 to hear what kind of voices there are out there. we are not asking for full-
 blown essays, but please give us what you can.
 
 as i do not read these groups often, please email all responses to me at
 shimpei@leland.stanford.edu. as my mail account is not infinite, if you can
 delete the questions and just have numbered answers when you write back
 i would really appreciate it.
 
 since we would like to start analyzing the result as soon as possible, we
 would like to have the answers by april 30. if you absolutely cannot make
 it by then, though, we would still liken to hear your answer.
 
 if anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect
 would like to have the answers by april 30. if you absolutely cannot make
 it by then, though, we would still like to hear your answer.
 
 if anyone is interested in our final project please send a note to that effect
 (or better yet, include a note along with your survey response) and i'll try
 to email it to you, probably in late may.
 
 survey:
 
 question 1)
 have you ever had trouble reconciling faith and reason? if so, what was the
 trouble?
 (for example: -have you ever been unsure whether creationism or evolutionism
                holds more truth?
               -do you practice tarot cards, palm readings, or divination that
                conflicts with your scientific knowledge of the world?
               -does your religion require you to ignore physical realities that
                you have seen for yourself or makes logical sense to you?)
 basically, we would like to know if you ever _believed_ in something that your
 _reason_tells you is wrong.
 
 question 2)
 if you have had conflict, how did/do you resolve the conflict?
 
 question 3)
 if you haven't had trouble, why do you think you haven't? is there a set of
 guidelines you use for solving these problems?
 
 thank you very much for your time.
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 shimpei yamashita, stanford university       email:shimpei@leland.stanford.edu
              "there are three kinds of mathematicians: 
               those who can count and those who can't."
 
 [it seems to be that time of year.  please remember that he's asked for
 you to respond by email.  --clh]
 