
 
 	a "new christian" wrote that he was new to the faith and 
 learning about it "by reading the bible, of course". i am not
 at all sure this is the best path to follow.
 	while the bible is, for christians, the word of god, the 
 revelation of god is jesus christ and the chief legacy of this
 revalation is the church. i am not recommending any one
 denommination, but i do recommend finding a comfortable christian
 congregation in which to develop your faith, rather than just
 reading the bible.
 	this does not mean that the bible should not be read, although
 i would stick to the gospels, epistles, and psalms and avoid the
 book of revelation altogether [until you are with friends you are
 comfortable with]. i am sure that mistakenly fervent  projects to
 read the entire bible have frequently bogged down with a remarkable
 lack of fervour somewhere in the middle of leviticus, or for the really
 sturdy, somewhere in chronicles.
 	the point is that the bible is their to illustrate the faith
 of christians, but does not provide the totality of that faith. vital
 beliefs of virtually all christians are simply not mentioned -
 the trinity, the duality of natures in christ, types of church
 organization. all these beliefs and practices have developed from the
 lived experience of the christian people, an experience lived one
 hopes in the spirit. as such the bible, i think, is better studies
 in the context of a congregation, and the context of other reading.
 	following up on a suggestion of an old confessor of mine, i 
 would even suggest that a good novel is a good way to reflect on the
 christian life. [most novels of any profundity are actually discussing
 the nature of good and evil in the human heart]. my own induction into
 the christian faith was brought about [after grace] through reading
 graham greene: _the power and the glory_ and the poetry of gerard
 manley hopkins. i would also recommend graham greene's _monsignor
 quixote_ and any novel by iris murdoch. the last is not even a christian,
 but such is her insistence on the need for the good life, that, frankly,
 i often am more uplifted and god directed after reading her than after
 reading many parts of the bible. and that after all is what being
 a christian is all about: letting your soul and your life be, in
 some way, directed towards the infinite, represented to us by
 the person of jesus christ.
 
 paul halsall
 halsall@murray.fordham.edu
 