
 listowner: i have sent this to mr anderson privately. post it only
 if you think it of general interest.
 
 here is a copy of something i wrote for another list. you may
 find it relevant.
 
 a listmember asks:
 
  > what makes common-law marriages wrong?
 
 a common-law marriage is not necessarily wrong in itself. there is
 nothing in the bible (old or new testament) about getting married by
 a preacher, or by a priest (jewish or christian). and in fact jewish
 priests have never had any connection with weddings.
 
 there is a common notion that the marriage is performed by the
 clergyman. in fact, the traditional christian view (at least in the
 west) is that the bride and groom are the ministers of the marriage,
 and that the clergyman is there only as a witness.
 
 however!
 
 the essential ingredient of a marriage is mutual commitment. two
 persons are considered to be married if and only if they have bound
 themselves by mutual promises to live together as husband and wife,
 forsaking all others, till death do them part.
 
       the reason why those who have reason to be concerned about who
 is married to whom have always insisted on some kind of public
 ceremony is in order that society, and the couple themselves, may be
 clear about whether a commitment has been made.
 
 suppose that we do away with the public ceremony, the standard vows,
 etc. instead, we have a man and a woman settling down to live
 together.
       after a year or so, the man says to the woman: hey, honey, it
 was great while it lasted, but i think it's time to move on.
       she says: what are you talking about?
       he says: i am leaving you and looking for someone prettier and
 younger.
       she says: but you can't. we are married!
       he says: what are you talking about? we never got married.
       she says: i remember distinctly what you said to me the night
 we first made love. you said: "my love for you is as deep as the
 ocean, as eternal as the stars. as long as i live, i am yours,
 utterly and completely. when i lie on my deathbed, my last feeble
 breath will utter your name. my..."
       he says: oh that! that was just rhetoric. just poetry. when a
 man is in a romantic mood, he is bound to say all kinds of silly
 things like that. you mustn't take them literally.
 
 and that is why you have an insistence on a formal ceremony that is
 a matter of public record.
       the church insists on it, because it is her duty (among other
 things) to give moral advice, and you cannot give a man moral advice
 about his relations with a woman if you have no idea who is married
 to whom, if anybody, and vice versa.
       the state insists on it, since the state has a concern with
 property rights, with child care and support, and therefore needs to
 know who has made what commitments to whom.
       prospective fathers-in-law insist on it, because they don't
 want their daughters seduced and abandoned.
       prospective spouses insist on it, because they want to make
 sure they know whether what they are hearing is a real commitment,
 or just "poetry."
       and persons making vows themselves insist on making them
 formally and publicly, in order that they may be clear in their own
 minds about what it is that they are doing, and may know themselves
 that this is not just rhetoric. this is the real thing.
 
       hence the insistence on a formal public explicit avowal of the
 marriage commitment.  the church goes further and insists that, when
 christians marry, a clergyman shall be present at the wedding and
 record the vows on behalf of the church, not because it is
 impossible to have a valid wedding without a clergyman, but in order
 to make sure that the couple understand what the christian teaching
 about marriage is, and that they are in fact promising to be married
 in a christian sense. the church also prefers a standard marriage
 vow, and is wary of letting couples write their own vows, for much
 the same reason that lawyers prefer standard terminology when they
 draw up a will or a contract. certain language has been repeatedly
 used in wills, and one can be sure how the courts will interpret it.
 try to say the same thing in your own words, and you may find that
 the probate judge's interpretation of them is not at all what you
 intended.  similarly, the church prefers to avoid endless debates
 about whether "you are my main squeeze" and "i am here for the long
 haul" do in fact cover the same territory as "forsaking all others"
 and "till death do us part."
 
       this topic has come up on the list before. (is there any topic
 that hasn't?) one listmember was asking, "if a couple love each
 other and are living together, isn't that marriage in the eyes of
 god?" eventually someone asked, "in that case, what is their status
 if they break up? is that the moral equivalent of getting a divorce?
 are they in a relationship that god forbids either of them to walk
 out on? " the original questioner said: "good grief, i never thought
 of that!" in fact, there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that
 someone who says, "we don't need a piece of paper or a ceremony in
 front of a judge or a preacher in order to show that we love each
 other," is trying to have it both ways -- to have the advantages of
 marriage plus the option of changing his mind with a minimum of
 bother.
 
 at this point someone may say, "none of this applies to me and my
 mate. we are quite clear on the fact that we have assumed a lifelong
 commitment, 'for better or worse, forsaking all others, till death
 us do part.' so in our case, no ceremony is needed."
      to this my reply would be: the reason for requiring a driver's
 license is to keep dangerous drivers off the road.  what is wrong in
 itself is not the existence of unlicensed drivers, but the existence
 of dangerous drivers. however, testing and licensing drivers is an
 obvious and reasonable means of pursuing the goal of reducing the
 number of dangerous drivers on the road. therefore the state rightly
 makes and enforces such laws, and you the citizen have a positive
 moral obligation to refrain from driving without a license no matter
 how much of a hotshot behind the wheel you think you are.
 
 back to the original question. we have a listmember who knows a
 couple who have been living together for around 20 years. he asks:
 at what point did they stop fornicating and start being married? i
 answer: at the point, if any, where they both definitely and
 explicitly accepted an obligation to be faithful to each other, for
 better or worse, as long as they both lived. if they have accepted
 such an obligation, what are their reasons for not being willing to
 declare it in front of, say, a justice of the peace?
 
  yours,
  james kiefer
 