
 this is being posted as a general outline for your personal study of this 
 doctrine:
 
 
                         the doctrine of god
 
 
 i.   the persons of the godhead
      of all of the doctrines of scripture, this is the most
      important.  the bible is pre-eminently a revelation of god. 
      therefore, our first objective in studying the bible should
      be to know god.
      i believe that the bible teaches that there are three
      persons in the godhead (trinity):  god, the father; god the
      son--the lord jesus christ; and god, the holy spirit.  i
      believe that they are individual persons who are one in
      nature, meaning that they are identical in nature, each
      possessing the same divine attributes.  they are also
      equally worthy of our worship, our trust, and our obedience.
      cf. matt.28:19, 2 cor.13:14; john 14:8,9,16,17.
 
 ii.  the attributes, or characteristics, of the godhead.
      a.  god's nature is revealed in the name he has taken for
          himself: jehovah.  he is the living god, eternal, and
          unchanging.  he is without beginning, and without
          ending.  cf. isa.42:8.
      b.  god is a spirit.  cf. john 4:24.
      c.  god is love.  cf. 1 john 4:8,16.
          as such, he is gracious, merciful, good, faithful,
          patient, and full of lovingkindness.  cf. psa 89:1,2;
          psa 103:8; nahum 1:7.
      d.  but god is also holy and righteous.  he is absolutely
          without sin in his nature, and so is incapable of
          sinning in though, word, or action.  cf. ex. 15:11; isa.
          6:3.
      e.  god is omnipresent (everywhere present at the same time
          in the completeness of his person), omniscient (all
          knowing, knowing all things--the end from the beginning,
          infinitely wise), omnipotent (almighty, sovereign, with
          unlimited power over all creation).
          god is infinite in his presence, wisdom, and power.  it
          is my conviction that the work of the lord in our day
          has become very man-centered, and that the people in our
          churches know very little about god.  i believe that the
          lord's work needs to be god-centered, and that the
          people of god need to understand that god is sovereign
          in all things:  in the affairs of nations, in the lives
          of all people, and in the carrying out of his purposes
          regarding salvation.
 
 iii.     the works of the godhead.
      a.  in creation
           all three persons of the godhead were active in
           creating, and all three are active in sustaining
           creation, and in ordering the course of human affairs
           (for nations as well as individual people) to the end
           of time.  cf. gen. 1:1,2; john 1:1-3; col. 1:16-17;
           heb. 1:3.
      b.  in salvation
          in order to understand salvation i believe that it is
          absolutely necessary to begin with god, not with man. 
          all three persons of the godhead have been, and are,
          active in salvation.
          1.  god, the father
              salvation originated with god.  the members of the
              godhead determined in eternity past that there would
              be salvation, the conditions under which people
              could and would be saved, and even who would be
              saved.  election to salvation is recognized in
              scripture as the work of  god, the father.  cf. eph
              1:3-4; 2 thess 2:13-14.
          2.  christ, the son of god
              the lord jesus christ, through his birth by the
              virgin mary, came to the earth to accomplish two
              important works:
              a.   he came as the final and complete revelation of
                   god, the father.  cf. col 1:15; heb 1:1-3.
              b.   he came to provide salvation for all whom the
                   father had chosen.  he did this by his death on
                   the cross, by his bodily resurrection, and by
                   his present intercessory work in heaven.  the
                   work of salvation will be completed for us when
                   the lord returns.  cf. rom 5:8-10; 1 cor 15:3-
                   4; heb 7:25, 1 john 3:2.
          3.  the holy spirit
              as the author of scripture, the theme of which is
              christ and his redemptive work, the holy spirit is
              carrying out the redemptive plan of god in the
              following ways:
              a.   he convicts of sin. cf. john 16:7-11
              b.   he regenerates (known in the bible as the new
                   birth).  cf. john 3:5-8.
              c.   he indwells each believer to fulfill the work
                   of sanctification.  cf. john 14-16-17.
              d.   he seals every believer in christ, thus making 
                   salvation secure.  cf. eph 1:13-14.
              e.   he baptizes every believer into the body of
                   christ.  cf. cor. 12:13
              f.   he teaches every believer the truth of
                   scripture. cf. john 14:26.
              g.   he bestows spiritual gifts on the people of 
                   god for ministry.  (cf. 1 cor 12
              h.   he restrains sin.  cf gal 5:16-26.
              i.   he empowers for living and for service.  
                   cf. acts 1:8
 
 
 ----------------------------------
 liane brown
 (internet) brownli@ohsu.edu
 portland oregon
 