
 i must have missed the postings about waco, david koresh, and the second
 coming.  how does one tell if a second coming is the real thing, unless the
 person claiming to be it is obviously insane?
 
 i'm not saying that david koresh is the second coming of christ.  how could
 somebody who breaks his word be the second coming?  koresh did promise that
 he would come out of his compound if only he was allowed to give a radio
 broadcast.  he didn't.  still it seems to me that he did fool some people.
 
 and, from my meagre knowledge of the bible, it seems that christians have
 been hard on the jews of christ's day for being cautious about accepting
 somebody that their religious authorities didn't accept as the messiah.
 
 so i was surprised that nobody had discussed the difficulty of wanting to be
 early to recognize the second coming while, at the same time, not wanting to
 be credulously believing just anybody who claims to be god.
 
 [mark 13:21   and then if any one says to you, 'look, here is the christ!' 
 or 'look, there he is!' do not believe it. 
 mark 13:22   false christs and false prophets will arise and show signs and 
 wonders, to lead astray, if possible, the elect. 
 mark 13:23   but take heed; i have told you all things beforehand. 
 mark 13:24    "but in those days, after that tribulation, the sun will be 
 darkened, and the moon will not give its light, 
 mark 13:25   and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in 
 the heavens will be shaken. 
 mark 13:26   and then they will see the son of man coming in clouds with 
 great power and glory. 
 
 my understanding of jesus' answer is that, unlike his first coming,
 which was veiled, the second coming will be quite unmistakeable.  he's
 telling us not to be misled by the other things that have to happen
 before his second coming -- the actual second coming will make his
 power openly visible.
 
 by the way, from koresh's public statement it's not so clear to me
 that he is claiming to be christ.
 
 --clh]
 