
 in article <apr.21.03.26.43.1993.1373@geneva.rutgers.edu> parkin@eng.sun.com writes:
 
 >desperately wanted the jewish people to accept him as the messiah.  if
 >the crucification was the will of god how could jesus pray that this
 >cup pass from him.  was this out of weakness.  never.  many men and
 >women have given their lives for their country or other noble causes.
 >is jesus less than these.  no he is not.  he knew the crucification
 >was not the will of god.  god's will was that the jewish people accept
 >jesus as the messiah and that the kingdom of heaven be established on
 >the earth with jesus as it's head. (just like the jewish people
 >expected). if this had happened 2000 years ago can you imagine what
 	.
 	.
 	.
 
 why do you assume that jesus's plea to his father "to let this cup
 pass from him", was merely a plea to escape death?  when i look at
 jesus in the garden, i see a man-god, who all his life had had the
 presense of his father with him.  as a result, he knew every
 detail about his death long before the agony in the garden.  but
 as that hour approached, he felt abandoned by his father, his
 presense diminishing with each passing minute.  in addition, it
 was brought more and more to jesus's attention (the betrayal of
 judas was probably a big impact) that his suffering would be to no
 avail for many people, especially those who would reject him, not
 only then but in the future.  i truly believe that the majority of
 jesus's suffering was mental and spiritual, while the physical
 portion was only the tip of the iceburg.
 
 btw, we know from john's account that jesus *shunned* becomming an earthly
 king.  from john:
 
 joh 6:14    after the people saw the miraculous sign that jesus did, they
             began to say, "surely this is the prophet who is to come into the
             world."
 joh 6:15    jesus, knowing that they intended to come and make him king by
             force, withdrew again to a mountain by himself.
 
 this does not seem like a man who would regret not becoming an
 earthly king.  no, jesus knew his mission was to redeem all (jew &
 gentile) people and establish his kingdom in the hearts of those
 who would believe.  this was utterly mistaken, much to jesus's
 dismay, as an aspiration to some earthly kingdom.  but he knew
 what his father's will was and followed it obediently even in the
 darkness of his passion.
 
 -- 
 john g. ata - technical consultant | internet:  ata@hfsi.com
 hfs, inc.		  va20     |     uucp:  uunet!hfsi!ata
 7900 westpark drive	 ms:601	   |    voice:	(703) 827-6810
 mclean, va  22102	           |      fax:	(703) 827-3729
 