
 my news feed is broken and i haven't received any new news in 243 hours
 (more than 10 days).  so, if you reply to this, please send private
 email to the address esther@demand.ed.ray.com -- i have set the
 reply-to line to have that address but i don't know if it will work.
 
 [it depends upon the software, but generally i wouldn't expect
 reply-to to cause an email cc to be sent in addition to a posting.
 you'll probably need to do something specific, which will vary
 depending upon your news software.  --clh]
 
 at any rate, i need some support.  (much thanks to jayne k who is
 already supporting me with kind words and prayers!)
 
 i've been working at this company for eight years in various
 engineering jobs.  i'm female.  yesterday i counted and realized that
 on seven different occasions i've been sexually harrassed at this
 company.  seven times. eight years. yesterday was the most recent one;
 someone left an x-rated photo of a nude woman in my desk drawer.
 
 i'm really upset by this.  i suppose it could have been worse -- it
 could have been a man having sex with a sheep or something.
 
 there was no note.  i do not know if it was:
 
 	- someone's idea of an innocent joke, that went awry
 	- someone's sick idea of flirting
 	- an act of emotional terrorism (that worked!)
 
 i dreaded coming back to work today.  what if my boss comes in to ask
 me some kind of question, i don't know the answer so i take a military
 specification down off from my shelf to look up the answer, and out
 falls a picture of a man having sex with a sheep?  i generally have a
 bible on my desk for occasional inspiration; what if i open it up to
 corinthians and find a picture a la the north american man boy love
 association?  i want to throw up just thinking about this stuff.
 
 i can lock up my desk, but i can't lock up every book i have in the
 office.  i can't trust that someone won't shove something into my
 briefcase or my coat pocket when i'm not looking so that i go home to
 find such a picture, or a threat, or a raunchy note about what someone
 wants to do to my body.
 
 to make it worse, the entire department went out to lunch yesterday to
 treat our marvelous secretary to lunch.  the appointed hour for
 leaving was 11:30.  i was working in another building but wanted to go
 to the lunch.  so i returned at 11:25, only to find that ever single
 person had already left for lunch.  they left at 11:15 or so.  no one
 could be bothered to call me at the other building, even though my
 number was posted.  so, i came back to a department that looked like a
 neutron bomb had gone off and i was the sole survivor.  this, despite
 the fact that everyone knew how bad i felt about this naked woman being
 left in my desk drawer.
 
 i need some prayers --- i can't stop crying. i am so deeply wounded
 that it's ridiculous.
 
 i feel like i'm some kind of sub-human piece of garbage for people to
 reduce me and my sisters to simply sex organs and the sex act.  i feel
 like i'm a sub-human piece of garbage that's not worthy of a simple
 phone call saying "we're leaving for mary's lunch a little early so
 that bob can get back for a big 1:00 meeting..."
 
 please pray that my resentments will either go away, or be miraculously
 turned into something positive.  please pray that whoever is torturing
 me so will stop, and find some healing for him- or herself. please pray
 for my being healed from this latest wound (which falls on top of a
 whole slew of other wounds...).  please pray that i can find a new job
 in a place where the corporate culture does its best to prevent such
 harrassment from happening in the first place, and swiftly acts
 appropriately when something occurs despite its best precautions. (this
 company, in my opinion, has pretty words about how sexual harrassment
 isn't tolerated but when you get right down to it, how is it that one
 female engineer can be touched inappropriately, left obsene or
 threatening notes, left obscene pictures, spoken to lewdly, etc, seven
 times in eight years in the same place?  pretty words from the company
 do me no good when i'm terrified or healing from the latest assault.)
 
 and please pray that i don't turn into an automaton because of this.
 that's my bad habit: "ignore it and it will go away", "you're not worth
 anyone's time so don't go talking to anyone about this", "you're right,
 you are a sub-human piece of garbage and deserve to be treated this
 way", "you are just an object", "you prostitute your mind to this
 company so why can't others expect you to prostitute your body there as
 well?", "what makes you think women aren't just possessions, and
 nothing more than sex organs and their ability to perform the sex act?"
 this is the kind of thinking that can catapault one into a major
 depressive episode; please pray that these thoughts don't come into
 my head and stay there, triggering depression.
 
 please pray that this latest trauma doesn't come between me and god.
 in a way, a wound like this is an invitation to a deeper connection to
 god, and it's also a possible trigger for a spiritual crisis that can
 separate one mentally from god.  (i know god doesn't drop me from his
 loving hand, but it's awfully easy for me to walk to the edge of the
 hand, look down, think i'm falling and forget that god's still holding
 on to me.)
 
 although this probably isn't entirely appropriate for this newsgroup,
 i really can use the kind of loving support you all provide.  for this
 reason i hope good mr. moderator allows me this latest indulgence.  after
 all, he's allowed me the thermometer note, and a few other off-the-wall
 topics.
 
 thanks in advance to everyone for your support and prayers.  peace to you,
 esther
 
 -- 
 esther paris, raytheon equipment div., marlboro, ma   esther@demand.ed.ray.com
 "in his esteem, nothing that was large enough to please, was too small
 for the fingers." -- john kitto, "the lost senses", 1848
 