
 "darren" == dr nancy's sweetie <kilroy@gboro.rowan.edu> writes:
 
 darren> in an earlier article, i explained that what many people find
 darren> arrogant about christians is that some christians profess
 darren> absolute certainty about their beliefs and doctrines.
 
 and
 
 darren> in short, the problem is that no matter how good your sources
 darren> are, if any part of your doctrines or beliefs rest on your own
 darren> thinking and reasoning, then those doctrines are suspect.
 
 the point that darren raises is a very lutheran viewpoint.  
 while reason is a gift from god, it is also infected by sin.
 yet we do not reject reason entirely--and neither, i think, 
 does darren.  we need reason, as darren himself has pointed
 out, to comprehend god's revelation of himself in the bible.
 but reason alone is not sufficient to comprehend and believe
 the word.  we need, first and foremost, faith.  for "the sinful
 mind is hostile to god.  it does not submit to god's law,
 *nor can it do so*"  (romans 8:7).
 
 luther accepted scripture as the sole means of revelation
 ("sola scriptura"), but accepted the necessity of the use
 of reason (with faith) in comprehending that revelation.
 yet luther also said, regarding baptism, "but mad reason
 rushes forth, and, because baptism is not dazzling like
 the works which we do, regards it as worthless." (large
 catechism, fourth part, baptism).  to make matters more
 complicated, luther was the sort of theologian that many 
 people would describe as an `absolutist'.  i've seen him 
 described as a `take no prisoners' theologian.
 
 we might conclude, given these observations, that luther
 was inconsistent or mad.  and surely at least some have
 come to that conclusion.  but it might be useful to
 recall that jesus was also called mad.  and peter felt
 compelled to defend himself and the apostles against
 a charge of drunkenness on pentecost.  so we as christians
 ought to be careful about rejecting luther (or others) 
 as mad.  rather, we should imitate the bereans, who
 examined the scriptures every day to see if what paul
 said was true (acts 17:11).
 
 the basis for the confidence with which luther, peter, paul, and many
 others preached the gospel was not just reason, but faith and the holy
 spirit.  this is not faith divorced from reason, but a faith that
 guides, informs, and uses reason.  the spirit enables us to know the
 truth and to proclaim it boldly.  god does not want us to preach the
 message that "i think that jesus might have risen from the dead" but
 rather "i know that my redeemer lives!"  (job 19:25).  the christian
 does not side with pilate in saying "what is truth?" but rather
 follows christ, who said, "in fact, for this reason i was born, and
 for this i came into the world, to testify to the truth.  everyone on
 the side of truth listens to me" (john 18:37).
 
 we can know the truth because god has promised us that we can
 know the truth.  jesus said, "if you hold to my teachings,
 you are really my disciples.  then you will know the truth,
 and the truth will set you free" (john 8:31,32).  the proverbs
 urge us "buy the truth, and do not sell it." (pr 23:23).
 the psalmist prayed "do not snatch to word of truth from my mouth"
 (ps 119:43).  evidently he believed that the word of truth
 was in fact `in his mouth'.  
 
 yet we do indeed appear arrogant if our claim to the truth
 is motivated by self-glorification.  but if we present the
 truth as the teachings of scripture, revealed by the 
 spirit, and not our own invention, and if we stand ready
 to be proved wrong on the basis of scripture, as luther
 did, then we are not arrogant, but humble.  we should humbly
 trust in god's promise of truth, just as we trust in his
 promise of forgiveness.
 
 rexlex> it is only because of god's own revelation that we can be 
 rexlex> absolute about a thing.
 
 darren> but how far does that get you?  once god's revelation stops,
 darren> and your own reasoning begins, possibility for error appears.
 
 i agree that we must make a distinction between the clear teachings
 of scripture, and the products of our own reason--even when such
 reasoning is based on scripture.  however i think i would draw
 the line of distinction more `reasonably'  :-)  and less `academically'
 than you would.
 
 darren> for example, let's suppose that our modern bible translations
 darren> include a perfect rendering of jesus words at the last supper,
 darren> and that jesus said, exactly, "this is my body."
 
 darren> we'll presume that what he said was totally without error and
 darren> absolutely true.  what can we be certain of?  not much.
 
 darren> at the moment he stops speaking, and people start
 darren> interpreting, the possibility of error appears.  did he mean
 darren> that literally or not?  we do not have any record that he
 darren> elaborated on the words.  was he thinking of tran- or con-
 darren> substantiation?  he didn't say. 
 
 darren is almost at the point of making a very lutheran statement
 about the lord's supper.  the lutheran approach is to say
 that if jesus said, "this is my body," then that is what we
 should believe.  other interpretations are rejected simply because
 they are not taught in scripture.
 
 recall that jesus' words do not stand alone on this subject.  we also
 have paul's words in 1 corinthians 11:17-34,--in which he passed on to
 us, what he received from the lord.  in particular he said, "for
 whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the
 lord's death until he comes."  by these words we should believe that
 the bread that we eat in the lord's supper really is bread (as well as
 the lord's body)--as our senses in fact tell us.  does this *prove*
 that tran-substantiation is false?  i suppose someone could say that
 paul spoke metaphorically of the lord's body as bread, simply because
 that is the way the body appears when we eat it.  but this thought is
 found nowhere in scripture.  so we reject it.  thus the primary
 reason for rejecting tran-substantiation is not that we can
 prove it false, but that it is simply not found in scripture.
 
 [side remark]
 i've been told that the lutheran doctrine on real presence is
 con-substantiation.  but it has been non-lutherans who have told
 me this.  we tend not to use the word.  i almost think that this
 is used more by professors of comparative religion, who need labels
 to compare catholic, lutheran and reformed teachings on the lord's
 supper.  but almost every church wants to call their own teaching
 "real presence" because that was the traditional teaching of 
 the church.
 [end side remark]
 
 darren> when christians speak as if they believe their own reasoning
 darren> can never lead them astray -- when we implicitly claim that we
 darren> are infallible -- the non- christians around us rarely believe
 darren> that implicit claim.  witnessing is hardly going to work when
 darren> the person you are talking to believes that you are either too
 darren> foolish to recognise your own limits, or intentionally trying
 darren> to cover them up.
 
 this is precisely why christians should not rely on rationalizations
 in their witnessing.  it is far better to take the approach,
 "i'd like to show you what scripture says.  you decide for 
 yourself whether to believe it or not."
 
 darren> `rexlex' suggested that people read _he is there and he is not
 darren> silent_, by francis schaeffer.  i didn't think very highly of
 darren> it, but i think that mr schaeffer is grossly overrated by many
 darren> evangelical christians.  somebody else might like it, though,
 darren> so don't let my opinion stop you from reading it.
 
 darren> if someone is interested in my opinion, i'd suggest _on
 darren> certainty_, by ludwig wittgenstein.
 
 as long as we're trading references, i'd like to suggest dr. siegbert
 becker's paperback, "the foolishness of god: the place of reason
 in lutheran theology," published by northwestern publishing house.
 this book was based on becker's doctoral thesis at the university
 of chicago.
 
 david wagner			"not by might, nor by power,
 a confessional lutheran		    but by my spirit,"
 					says the lord almighty.
 				zechariah 4:6.
 