
 in article <apr.20.03.03.06.1993.3836@geneva.rutgers.edu> shellgate!llo@uu4.psi.com (larry l. overacker) writes:
 
    you ask where we are.  i would echo that question.  i'm not trying to be
    contentious.  but assuming that the pope has universal jurisdiction
    and authority, what authority do you rely upon for your decisions?
    what prevents me from choosing any doctrine i like and saying that
    papal disagreement is an error that will be resolved in time?
    this is especially true, since councils of bishops have basically
    stood by the pope.
 
 the ultimate question is the traditional theology of the church.  this
 is the *only* thing that it is possible to resist a pope for: his
 departure from the traditional doctrine of the church.  if commands
 from *any* authority conflict with tradition, the commands must be
 disobeyed.
 
 my own view on this is that this conflict could only happen in a major
 way.  god would never allow a hair-splitting situation to develop; it
 would be too complex for people to figure out.  i don't view the
 present situation in the church as anything extremely complicated.
 run through a list of what has happened in the last 30 years in the
 catholic church, and any impartial observer will be aghast.
 
    it appears that much of what lies at the heart of this matter is
    disagreements over what is tradition and tradition, and also over
    authority and discipline.  
 
 the problems stem from a general widespread ignorance of the catholic
 faith, in my opinion.  most catholics know about zilch about the
 catholic faith; this leaves them wide open for destruction by erring
 bishops.  it's basically the reformation part ii.
 
 there is not even a question in my mind that in some respects the
 shards of the catholic church are currently being trampled upon by the
 catholic hierarchy.  i could go on listing shocking things for an
 hour, probably.
 
 take the situation in campos, brazil, for example.  i'm reading a book
 on what happened there after vatican council ii.  the bishop, antonio
 de castro-mayer, never introduced all the changes that followed in the
 wake of vatican ii.  he kept the traditional mass, the same old
 catechisms, etc.  he made sure the people knew their faith, the
 catholic theology of obedience, what modernism was, etc.  he
 innoculated the people against what was coming.
 
 well, one day the order came from rome for his retirement.  it came
 when the pope was sick.  bishop de castro-mayer waited until the pope
 recovered, then inquired whether this command was what the pope really
 wanted, or something that some liberal had commanded in his absence.
 the pope confirmed the decision.  so the good bishop retired.
 
 the injustice that followed was completely incredible.  a new bishop
 was installed.  he proceeded to expel most of bishop de castro-mayer's
 clergy from their churches, because they refused to celebrate the new
 mass.  the new bishop would visit a parish, and celebrate a new mass.
 the people would promptly walk out of the church en masse.  the bishop
 was *enraged* by this.  he usually resorted to enlisting the help of
 the secular authorities to eject the priest from the church.  the
 priests would just start building new churches; the people were
 completely behind them.  the old parishes had the new mass, as the
 bishop desired -- and virtually no parishioners.
 
 the prime motivation for all this was completely illegal, according to
 canon law.  no priest can be penalized in any way for saying the
 traditional mass, because of legislation enacted by pope saint pius v.
 nor is there any obligation to say the new mass.
 
 during all this process, the people of campos, not just private
 individuals, but including civil authorities, were constantly sending
 petitions and letters to rome to do something about the new modernist
 bishop.  nothing was ever done; no help ever arrived from rome.
 eventually 37 priests were kicked out, and about 40,000 people.
 
    my question to the supporters of sspx is this:
 
 	 is there any way that your positions with respect to church reforms
 	 could change and be conformed to those of the pope? (assuming that
 	 the pope's position does not change and that the leaders of sspx
 	 don't jointly make such  choice.)
 
    if not, this appears to be claiming infallible teaching authority.
    if i adopt the view that "i'm not wrong, i can't be wrong, and
    there's no way i'll change my mind, you must change yours", that
    i've either left the catholic church or it has left me.
 
 if the pope defines certain things ex cathedra, that would be the end
 of the controversy.  that process is all very well understood in
 catholic theology, and anyone who doesn't go along with it is an
 instant non-catholic.
 
 the problem here is that people do not appreciate what is going on in
 the catholic world.  if they knew the faith, and what our bishops are
 doing, they would be shocked!
 
    we sould argue from now until the second coming about what the "real"
    traditional teaching of the church is.  if this were a simple matter
    east and west would not have been separated for over 900 years.
 
 this isn't the case in the catholic church.  there is a massive body
 of traditional teaching.  the popes of the last 150 years are
 especially relevant.  there is no question at all what the traditional
 doctrine is.
 
    i thought that the teaching magisterieum of the church did not allow
    error in teachings regarding faith and morals even in the short term.`
    i may be wrong here, i'm not roman catholic. :-)
 
 that's heresy, more or less.  although they have done a great job
 since the reformation, the last 30 years have seen so many errors
 spread that it's pitiful.
 
 infallibility rests in the pope, and in the church as a whole.  in the
 short term, a pope, or large sections of the church can go astray.  in
 fact, that's what usually happens during a major heresy: large
 sections of the church go astray.  (the pope historically has been
 much more reliable.)  everything will always come back in the long
 run.
 
    what would be the effect of a pope making an ex cathedra statement
    regarding the sspx situation?  would it be honored?  if not, how
    do you get around the formal doctrine of infallibility?
    again, i'm not trying to be contentions, i'm trying to understand.
    since i'm orthodox, i've got no real vested interest in the outcome,
    one way or the other.
 
 yes, it would be honored.  infallibility is infallibility.  but what
 is he going to define?  that the new mass is a better expression of
 the catholic faith than the old?  that sex education in the catholic
 schools is wonderful?  that all religions are wonderful except for
 that professed by the popes prior to vatican ii?
 
    it does if the command was legitimate.  sspx does not view the
    pope's commands as legitimate.  why?  this is a very slippery slope.
 
 not really; start studying the major catholic theologians of the last
 300 years.  everything is very well spelled out.  the west excels at
 critical thought, remember?  that's what catholic theologians have
 been busy at for centuries.
 