
 heres a story of a saint that people might like to read. i got it from
 a the morning star, and am posting it with the permission of the
 editor.
 
 
     saint aloysius gonzaga
 
     the patron of youth
 
 
     the marquis gonzaga had high aspirations for his son, the  prince
     gonzage.  he  wanted  him  to become a famous, brave and honoured
     soldier. after all, he must carry on the  great  family  name  of
     gonzaga.  of  course, he was to become far more famous, brave and
     honoured than his father could ever have imagined; though not  in
     the manner expected.
 
     saint aloysius' mother was a woman who received immense joy  from
     praying  to  god  and  meditating on the divine mysteries and the
     life of our lord. she had little time for the pleasures  of  this
     life.  as  saint  aloysius	grew, he began to resemble his mother
     more than his father.
 
     saint aloysius had learned numerous expressions from his father's
     soldiers,  but the moment he discovered that they were vulgar, he
     fainted from shock. this shows his immense hatred of sin (what an
     example for us of the contempt we must have for sin).
 
     about the time of his first holy  communion  (which  he  received
     from  the  archbishop  of  milan,  charles borromeo, whom himself
     became a great saint), he con-secrated  his  purity  to  god  and
     asked the blessed virgin to protect his innocence for life.
 
     he wanted to share our lord's suffering to	show  his  reciprocal
     love.  he  started by denying his passions; he avoided eating the
     finest foods, wearing the best clothes, and would put  pieces  of
     wood  in his bed in order to mortify himself for the love of god.
     while he was in his early teens his  father  sent  him  (and  his
     younger  brother)  to  the court of the spanish king, phillip 11.
     obediently, he set out to make the best of it. he mixed  in  well
     with  the people of the royal court, for he was handsome, polite,
     intelligent and always had something interesting to say.
 
 
     not long before this time, the great soldier-saint,  saint	igna-
     tius  of  loyola,  had founded the society of jesus (the jesuits)
     towards which saint aloysius
 
 
 				  -12-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     began to have a yearning. when he finally told  his  father,  the
     marquis flew into a rage and forbade his son to become a priest.
 
     after a short time, his father sent him to the  great  cities  in
     order that he be tempted away from the priesthood, but even
 
     through these trials, saint aloysius grew in his desire  for  the
     religious life and was strengthened in the virtue of purity.
 
     the marquis' plans were obviously failing, so he con-fronted  his
     son:  "will  you or will you not obey me and forget this foolish-
     ness?" "i will not, father," was the  in-evitable  reply.	"then
     leave from my sight and don't return until you change your mind!"
     with tears clouding his eyes, the saint left the  room  to	pray:
     "tell  me lord, what am i to do? tell me! tell me!" he knelt down
     to flagellate himself as he had done several  times  before,  but
     this  time	he was seen. the onlooker rushed to the marquis. this
     at last brought the proud man to his senses. "the lord wants him,
     the lord can have him." he gave his consent for his son to become
     a jesuit.
 
     after some years (at the end of the sixteenth century), a  terri-
     ble  epidemic  broke out in rome. all the hospitals were full and
     could house no more, so the jesuits opened their own. saint aloy-
     sius  did  all he could in the hospitals, particularly to prepare
     the dying for a holy death.
 
     saint aloysius himself contracted the plague  from	carrying  and
     nursing  the  sick.  for three months he lay with a burning fever
     and finally, on june 21st, 1591, he gave his  soul	to  the  lord
     while gazing at a crucifix.
 
     let us invoke saint aloysius as our patron and imitate him in his
     humility, purity and confidence in prayer.
 
     saint aloysius gonzaga, pray for us.
 
     - brendan arthur
 
 
 
 
 
 
     prayer is as necessary to a person consecrated to the service  of
     others as a sword is to a soldier
 
 god bless
 
 from simon
 lines:  106
 -- 
 /----------------------------------------------------------------|-------\
 |  simon p. shields programmer           viva cristo rey !!  ----|----   |
 |  monash university college gippsland ph:+61 51 226 357       .jhs.     |
 |  switchback rd. churchill.          fax:+61 51 226 300       |\|/|     |
 