
 phil sells writes:
 
 > probably a tired old horse, but...  maybe with a slightly different
 > twist.  i wanted to know if there are any good english-language texts
 > for learning ancient hebrew, and how these compare with german
 > educational texts qualitywise, if anybody has an idea.  i can't figure
 > out if i should buy one here for later study or wait until i get back to
 > the u.s.
 
 my impression is that *for advanced work* you will be much better off with
 german reference works (lexicons, concordances especially).  for a first-time
 encounter, my *personal* preference would be to deal with a textbook written in
 my native language.  but if you know german and are in germany, pick up all the
 reference books you think you can handle.  (i only know these works by
 reputation, since my german is most rusty, but i'd look at the following books:
 koehler's lexicon, mandeldern's concordance, the jenni & westermann theological
 dictionary of the ot.)
 
 > what's it like at divinity schools or seminaries in the states?  is
 > there a lot of language instruction done?  i really don't have a basis
 > for comparison.
 
 the amount of language instruction available at us seminaries varies widely,
 mostly depending on the denominational heritage of the school.  presbyterian
 and reformed seminaries probably place a lot more emphasis on the biblical
 languages than others.  (of course, any divinity school that has a doctoral
 program in biblical studies is going to have extensive language resources!  but
 there are quite a few masters-degree-granting seminaries here at which the
 attitude seems to be more, "well, if you're *really* interested we'll give you
 a semester-long course, but we don't understand why . . .")
 
 the pattern here at the louisville presbyterian seminary is for first-year
 students to take intensive five-week introductory language courses in each
 language, followed by semester-long exegesis courses.  (that is: hebrew in
 august, ot exegesis in the fall; greek in january, nt exegesis in the spring.) 
 these courses are required for graduation, a third or a half of the students,
 i'd say, take advanced biblical work that requires language work.
 