
 in article <apr.16.23.18.04.1993.1876@geneva.rutgers.edu> rob@ll.mit.edu writes:
 >i think it was lewis who said that in a wedding, it's the principals  
 >that marry each other; the church and the state are present merely as  
 >witnesses.
 >
 >[this is not just lewis -- it's a summary of standard catholic
 >theology.  however this doesn't mean that the presence of those
 >witnesses is optional, except in odd situations like the standard
 >desert island.  --clh]
 
 	i originally wrote to the person who asked this question
 personally, but decided to post the information i had on the topic.
 
 	i spoke to the pastor of my parish (catholic) recently, 
 by coincidence, on this subject.  his explaination was that 
 while it is possible for a couple to marry without the presence
 of a priest, it is important to have it recognized by the 
 church as soon as it is possible.  because the church 
 recoginizes itself as a community of believers, members
 of the church, to some degree, are to be held accountable
 to each other.  to be less hypothetical than that mythical
 couple on the desert island, there are many places in the
 world that do not have priests availible for marriages
 on a regular basis.  therefore, couples get married without
 the priest being present, but get the priest to testify to
 their marriage when one comes through the area.  
 
 	i remember a religion teacher in high school saying
 that the marriage ceremony is not for the benefit of the couple
 as much as it is for the benefit of the community.  thus,
 married couples have some responsibility to the community
 to stay married, as divorce sets a bad example for the
 community.  also, the couple has vowed to become one with
 one another--the community should be able to rely on that 
 couple to be as one.
 
 	while couples may marry without witnesses, they 
 may not get anulments without a priest present.  an 
 anulment is simply an admission of the church that what
 they had declared a marriage was not, in fact, a marriage
 at all, for whatever reason.  so don't start getting married
 in the back seat of a station wagon and giving yourselves
 anulments a half-hour later!!
 
 	i tend to agree with the response back there that
 said couples become married as soon as they consumate their
 marriage, but i would add that couples should consider their
 marriage consumated if they have sex, whether or not they
 intended to be married, assuming they were both willing
 partners to the sexual act.  the couple must be prepared
 to raise any children they may have as a result of that
 sexual act with the benefit of both parents.  sex is a
 commitment, i believe, in god's eyes.
 
 	but i'm digressing....
 
 			god be with you,
 					
 				malcusco
 