
 *******
 *******  this is somewhat long, but pleas read it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 *******
 
 
 
 boy am i glad you decided to read this. i've got a problem that 
 i need as many people's help from as possible.
 
 before i go in to the details of this, let me go ahead and tell
 you that (though it may sound it) this is not one of those boy
 meets girl problem...at least not totally like that to me....anyway...
 
 ok, i am a 19 year old sophmore at ncsu. about 10 years ago, my family
 and i were vacationing at the coast in a cottage we rented. across the
 street, was ths girl who would whistle at me whenever she saw me...
 her name in erin. well, we became friends that week at the beach and have
 been writing each other for about 10 years....there was a period of about
 2 years we lost contact..but that was a while ago. 
 
 by the way...erin lives in kansas and me in nc.
 
 ok, last year in one of her letters, she says that she is coming
 back to nc to see some of her family who are gonna be there. so i
 drove about 4 hours to see her. this is where it begins....i spent
 the whole day with erin....one of the best days of my life. even though
 we had been writing each other, we still had to get used to being
 in person....she has got to be the most incredible woman i ever met.
 (she's one year older than me btw). i mean, no person in the world could
 ask for a better person. not only was she incredibly beautiful (not to 
 mention way out of my league...although i'm  not unattractive mind you), but
 she had a great personality and a great sence of humor. her family
 is one of those families who goes to church but that is about the
 extent of their christianity...you know the kind of people. but she
 knows i am a christian. 
 
 well, you get the idea of what i think of her. if there is ever such
 a thing as love at first sight....i found it. that was last year...i kid
 you not when i say that i have thought about her every day since then.
 
 in out letters, erin and i always kid each other about not finding
 dates..(which is true for me, but i know it can't be for her).
 she has had some problems at home, her folks split up and she ended
 up leaving school....now we are at the present...
 
 let me give you part of the letter i got from her last week....
 
 
 "okay, now i'm going to try to explain my life to you. i'm not
 going to ku anymore because something just isn't right. college
 just wasn't clicking with me here. greek life is really big here and
 that just isn't my way. i wasn't taking any classes that truly interested
 me & i really have no idea of what i want to do with my life. i was
 interested in something medical (physical therpy) & i love working with 
 kids, but 'it' just didn't work for me at this university. and my parents
 could tell.
 
 "so i'm working full time at the bass store [bass shoes that is] and now
 i have a part-time job at a local daycare. i work in the infant room
 m-w-f. i've really enjoyed it so far. it spices up my week a little bit and 
 it's great experience.
 
 "as of now, i'm not planning on going back to school in the very
 near future. the main reason being my indecision on what i want to
 study. but i definatley plan on going back within the next couple of
 years. where? i have no idea--except for one thing, it won't be
 to kansas.
 
 "right noew i'm discussing a promotion with my boss and district 
 manager. it looks like i'll train at the store i work at now for
 about 4-6 months as assistant manager and when that's done, i'll 
 basically be given a list of stores (newly or soon to be built) to 
 chose where i would like to manage. i've pretty much decided on either
 one of the carolinas (hopeully close to the beach) wouldn't it
 be fun to actually see each other more than once every few years??
 what do you think abou that? i would like to know your opinion.
 
 "this job would pretty much be temporary. but it is very good pay
 and any thye of management experience would look good on an application
 or resume. the company is solid and treats it employees very well. good
 benefits, bonuses & medical plans. plus- after 1 year of full-time
 service, they will reimburse tuition. i do have school money waitng
 for me, but this will help, especially since i will probably end up 
 paying out of state tuition wherever i go.
 
 "chris, i really would like to know what you think of my decision. i 
 respect your opinion. i've been completely lost for what to do for 
 soooo long that when the opportunity came along it sounded really 
 good. i do like my job although i'm about 99.9% sure that i want
 to do more with my life than reatil management..but it is something.
 i don't think earning about $20,000 a year for a 20 year old female
 is too bad. 
 
 "anyway, onto your career decisions. i'll solve your problem right now,
 marry me...
 
 "you can do your pilot thing-- i like to be by myself sometimes! seriously
 (or not as seriously)- do what will make you the happiest, worry about the
 home life later."
 
 ***********
 
 ok, well i'm sure you see what has got me so uptight. what do you
 think she meant about the marraige thing?? 
 
 i dream at night about marrying her, and then she mentions it in her
 letter!!! i don't know what to think??
 
 since she wants to move to the carolina's should i search out a 
 bass store near here and aske her to come to carolina???
 
 i always pick on those people who graduate from high school and
 get married....but what does she mean??? 
 
 i've had a lot of stress lately with exams and also the fact that 
 i don't date beacause 1) no time  2) not that much $$ 3) that
 most college women are wrapped up in the social scene with  the
 greeks whic as a christian i can't support-----and here
 she says she doesn't like the greek thing either!!
 
 maybe i'm so stunned because there is actually a girl that i am
 so attracted to paying some real attention to me.
 
 i mean, what if she did move to nc...what would i do??? i'm
 only 19 and she 20....i'm only a sophmore struggling through
 classes..
 
 i have prayed about this over the past year from time to time..
 saying, "god if she is the right one, let the situation open up.."
 
 could this be my sign???
 
 i would do anything to get her to nc...here is some moree that makes 
 it worse..
 
 should i call her?? i'm terrible over the phone. i don't even like
 to talk to my friends here for longer than 3 minutes.
 
 i mean, what would a girl as perfect as her want with a very
 average guy like me??
 
 i'm really confused....i would really appreciate any help i can get.
 
 thanx 
 
 chris
 
 [i have a feeling that it might be more appropriate to talk with
 chris directly via email.  --clh]
 