
 >  i'm concerned about a recent posting about wbt/sil.  i thought they'd
 >pretty much been denounced as a right-wing organization involved in
 >ideological manipulation and cultural interference, including vietnam
 >and south america. a commission from mexican academia denounced them in
 >1979 as " a covert political and ideological institution used by the
 >u.s. govt as an instrument of control, regulation, penetration, espionage and
 >repression."
 >  my concern is that this group may be seen as acceptable and even
 >praiseworthy by readers of soc.religion.christian. it's important that
 >christians don't immediately accept every "christian" organization as
 >automatically above reproach.
 > 
 >                                                                  mp
 
 good heavens, you mean my good friend wes collins, who took his wife and two 
 small children into the jungles of guatemala, despite dangers from primitive 
 conditions and armed guerillas, so that the indigenous people groups their 
 could have the bible in their native languages--the young man who led bible 
 studies in our church, who daily demonstrated and declared his deep abiding 
 faith in the lord of love--you mean he really was a sneaky imperialistic *spy* 
 whose _real_ reason for going was to exploit and oppress the ignorant and 
 unsuspecting masses?  imagine my surprise!  i never would have thought it of 
 him.
 
 how was this terrible deceit discovered?  what exactly was the "cultural 
 interference" they were caught committing?  attempting to persuade the locals 
 that their ancestral gods were false gods, and their sacrifices (including 
 human sacrifices in some cases) were vain?  destroying traditional lifestyles 
 by introducing steel tools, medical vaccines, and durable clothes?  oh and by 
 the way, who did the denouncing?
 
 i am terribly shocked to hear that my friend wes, who seemed so nice, was 
 really such a deceitful tool of the devil.  please provide me with specific 
 documentation on this charge.  there is some risk that i may not believe it 
 otherwise.
 
 - mark
 