
 it's like refusing 'god's kingdom come'.
 
 in one of jesus' revelation in this century, "...same thing as in
 the old days.  people refuse to believe my messengers.  even when
 i was alive here on earth, they refuse me.  what more when i am just
 talking through somebody else?" (paraphrased).
 
 with all the knowledge believers accumulated, he would think that
 we would be 'enlightened' enough to detect which ones are 
 'authentic and divine' as opposed to 'evil or man-made'.
 
 these signs, these miracles, are you afraid that they are not from god?
 that these are the signs we should not open our hearts and mind to for thinking
   they are evil?
 well, is faith in god evil?
 is true peace evil?  is true love that is divine and pure evil? 
 why can't someone accept that god can do what he wants in fulfillment of his
   generous love and jesus' never ending forgiveness to those who turn back to
   him for salvation?
 why are we refusing god's messenger of this truth?  the mother to all who are
   in christ?
 what brings us these:
     fears of being shamed by what others will think or say about us?
         which, in contrary, could be pleasing to god?
     fears of being humbled?
     fears of being judged as wrong (wrt mainstream standard of what is right)?
 why can't we tolerate non-believers' mockery or ridicule of us for the
   sake of peace, love and obedience to god?  the humbling lessons left to us
   by martyrs and saints?
 we'd rather engage in never-ending bickering and disproof of each other's
   opinion - looking at each other's mistakes - for the sake of arguments,
   instead of having communion in one body with christ.
 what makes us go blind to the truth that god is all powerful and that he can
   not be binded by what people wrote and have written about him in all ages?
 why is our faith in god limited?  by all the words and literature we muster?
 what prevents us from going *beyond* being saved and extend god's rich love
   to others who are not?
 
 why are our eyes not wide open to see that he continuously sees our faith, hope
   and love which glorify him and so he gives us indications of his 
   acknowledgements with signs/miracles (ordinary/common or divinely inspired) 
   everywhere?  isn't that like an atheist/agnostic's view that all these
   are just ordinary here on earth and not caused by anything supernatural?
 
 why then does the holy mother comes back to remind us:
   "we must really __accept that prayer__ changes the course of things and that
   with prayers __even wars can be prevented__."
 but then she continues:
   "you often have an egotistic attitude.  dear children, in these days you
   have prayed very much, __but your hands have remained empty__."
 why hesitate in proclaiming what needs to be done:
   "prayer, conversion, peace, penance, fasting, the holy mass, living life
   as what the gospel brings."?
 why not do so?  how?  to the world?
 to this, the mother says:
   "start in your family.  be a good example.  live the word."
 why worry if it is going to be of good use to many?
 our holy mother says:
   "the fruits, __leave them to the lord__, do not worry about anything or 
   anyone but entrust yourself to the lord."
 
 although the holy mother does not insist because:
   "you are free; i bow before the freedom which god gives you."
 but she follows this with:
   "you are surprised because i say to you: decide for god and yet, see how
   you have lived this day."
 why does she constantly conveys:
   "take this life toward god in the way as to __experience__ the lord himself
   in your __behavior__ and __not only__ when you pray" or one time when we 
   decide that we are saved, or talk/write about god, etc.
 the holy mother warns:
   "satan (the serpent) is always trying to dissuade you to turn you away from
   my peace plan and prayer."  (rev 12:17, the dragon became angry with the woman
   and went off to wage war against the rest of her offsprings, those who keep
   god's commandments, and bear witness to jesus.)
 
 do you have fear or hate for god's current messenger of true peace, love and
   our motherly protector from the anti-christ?
 the one who is being apprehensive of communism, wars, famine and other evils
   that the serpent brings upon us? 
 this obedient and blessed new eve?
 the mother who warns us so we can be prepared and be strong against satan?
 haven't there been renewed faith, hope, love, peace and obedience wherever
   this messenger has shared her blessings and graces that god has given her
   in good purpose?
 why do we choose to be blind?
 why fear the truth that god has been giving us a chance and sharing christ's
   ever-forgetting forgiveness to us through the obedient mother?
 the mother who has been consecrated the task __to reverse__ the disobedient
   harm and example done by the ancient eve.
 she has been preparing the new eden with her immaculate heart.
 the new eden as sanctuary (the womb) for the next coming and judgement of the 
   righteous by our lord, jesus christ; when the lamb marries his bride.
 shouldn't we give her a hand in her exhaustive job of preparing us for the
   second coming of her son as she has been conceived without sin to bear
   the son of god in her womb?
 why fear true peace, love and renewed faith and obedience to god that mary
   faithfully brings to god's children?  she has been protecting the flock
   (the rest of the offsprings) from the greedy dragon so as to present more 
   righteous members for her son's coming.
 not all apparitions and miracles that resulted from them are worthy
   of belief.  with prayer and guidance from the holy spirit and, of course,
   approval of our church authorities, we should be aware of the true and
   divinely inspired ones; specifically, the ones which aligns with the
   scripture.
   
 
 also, our lady reminds us of recommendation of __silence__ in our prayers:
   "if you speak unceasingly in your prayers, how will you be able to hear
   god?  allow him room to answer you, to speak to you." 
 
 she encourages us (with motherly nurturing) to continue in exuberant 
 faith, hope and love to jesus, constantly.  not with mere emotions, 
 but with deep, constant obedience to jesus, her beloved son and
 acknowledgement of our need to have him as part of our lives.
 
 let's not wait to the last minute to renew our faith and the life
 that god wants us to live; when there won't be enough time or when
 it will be late.
                                                       
 nowadays, mary says, 
 "pray, pray, pray for peace...reconciliation, my children."
 have peace within yourself first before you can promote peace to
 others.  for without peace, you can not fully accept my son."
                                                                        
 
 and you think she's just an ordinary lady.  not to me.  she's
 our good mother/messenger from god and she is so nice enough to
 share god's kingdom to us through her son and experience it.
 
 with mary, we are assured that the lamb always succeeds.
 
 -----
 note:  all enclosed in quotes are from "latest news of medjugorje"
        number 10, june, 1991 by fr. rene' laurentin.
 
 -----
 
 o, new mother of eden, most pure
 preparing the sanctuary for true christians
 cleansing us with peace for god's kingdom come
 bring us to your loving, protective and obedient church
 that we may belong in one body to your son, jesus christ, our lord
 and not go astray from his perfect completeness
 pray that we ourselves pray with the holy spirit guiding us
 so that we may help you in strength to conquer the enemies of your son
   while you prepare us for him with your immaculate heart.
 