
 please realize that i am frequently getting in trouble for
 straying from orthodoxy, but here is my opinion:
 
 in article <apr.17.01.10.58.1993.2246@geneva.rutgers.edu>, mdbs@ms.uky.edu (no name) writes:
 > ... moreover the buddha says that we are 
 > intrinsically good (as against christ's "we are all sinners").
 
 i never thought of these two ideas being "against" each other.
 people might quibble about what "intrinsically" means but the
 reason we are sinners is because we do not behave as good as we
 are. the message of christ is that each of us are not only good,
 but great, that we can approach perfection, albeit perhaps through a 
 different technique than you claim buddhism teaches. because we do
 not realize our greatness, we sin. peter had no problem walking 
 on water until a little doubt crept in.
 
 doesn't david ask in the 8th psalm "what is man that you [god] 
 should care for him, but you have made him just a little lower 
 than the angels"?
 
 i probably exagerate in my mind what a scrawny little kid david
 was, just as i probably exagerate what a gigantic monster goliath
 was, but david's power easily defeated goliath's.
 
 remember the rich young man who comes up to jesus and asks what
 he can do to enter the kingdom, jesus says follow the commandments.
 i always picture the smug look on his face as he says he's done that
 his whole life, probably anticipating an "attaboy" from the 
 messiah. instead jesus gives him a harder task, sell everything
 and follow him. jesus is raising the bar. the desciples say
 how can anyone do this if it's so hard even for rich people.
 jesus says anyone can do it, with god's help.
 
 jesus says not only can we avoid killing people, we can avoid
 getting angry at people. not only can we avoid committing
 adultery, we can control our own desires. 
 
 i realize this was not your main point, but i wonder how other
 people see this. 
 
 > ...
 > 	parting question:
 > 		would you have become a christian if you had not
 > been indoctrinated by your parents? you probably never learned about
 > any other religion to make a comparative study. and therefore i claim
 > you are brain washed.
 
 (please forgive any generalizations i am about to make.)
 
 your point about how "hard" other religions are is a good one, just 
 as your "parting question" is a tough question. i think that muslims
 worship the same god as i do, we can learn from their name "submission".
 hindus and buddhists and taoists, etc. claim that "god" is impersonal. 
 is god personal or impersonal? i say yes, but if i think a little
 more my answer is whichever is greater. i think it is greater 
 to be a personal entity, with an individual consciousness, but
 you're right that that might be a cultural bias. if i think more
 i must admit that god's personal nature is as far beyond my
 conception as his impersonal nature is beyond the hindu's
 conception. if somehow jesus could fit into hindu cosmology
 then maybe i wouldn't have a problem, though that is hard to imagine.
 
 are there any former (or present) "eastern religion" members here 
 who could comment?
 
 chris mussack
 