
 
  library of congress to host dead sea scroll symposium april 21-22
  to: national and assignment desks, daybook editor
  contact: john sullivan, 202-707-9216, or lucy suddreth, 202-707-9191
           both of the library of congress
 
    washington, april 19  -- a symposium on the dead sea 
 scrolls will be held at the library of congress on wednesday,
 april 21, and thursday, april 22.  the two-day program, cosponsored
 by the library and baltimore hebrew university, with additional
 support from the project judaica foundation, will be held in the
 library's mumford room, sixth floor, madison building.
    seating is limited, and admission to any session of the symposium
 must be requested in writing (see note a).
    the symposium will be held one week before the public opening of a
 major exhibition, "scrolls from the dead sea: the ancient library of
 qumran and modern scholarship," that opens at the library of congress
 on april 29.  on view will be fragmentary scrolls and archaeological
 artifacts excavated at qumran, on loan from the israel antiquities
 authority.  approximately 50 items from library of congress special
 collections will augment these materials.  the exhibition, on view in
 the madison gallery, through aug. 1, is made possible by a generous
 gift from the project judaica foundation of washington, d.c.
    the dead sea scrolls have been the focus of public and scholarly
 interest since 1947, when they were discovered in the desert 13 miles
 east of jerusalem.  the symposium will explore the origin and meaning
 of the scrolls and current scholarship.  scholars from diverse
 academic backgrounds and religious affiliations, will offer their
 disparate views, ensuring a lively discussion.
    the symposium schedule includes opening remarks on april 21, at
 2 p.m., by librarian of congress james h. billington, and by
 dr. norma furst, president, baltimore hebrew university.  co-chairing
 the symposium are joseph baumgarten, professor of rabbinic literature
 and institutions, baltimore hebrew university and michael grunberger,
 head, hebraic section, library of congress.
    geza vermes, professor emeritus of jewish studies, oxford
 university, will give the keynote address on the current state of
 scroll research, focusing on where we stand today. on the second
 day, the closing address will be given by shmaryahu talmon, who will
 propose a research agenda, picking up the theme of how the qumran
 studies might proceed.
    on wednesday, april 21, other speakers will include:
 
    -- eugene ulrich, professor of hebrew scriptures, university of
 notre dame and chief editor, biblical scrolls from qumran, on "the
 bible at qumran;"
    -- michael stone, national endowment for the humanities
 distinguished visiting professor of religious studies, university of
 richmond, on "the dead sea scrolls and the pseudepigrapha."
    -- from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. a special preview of the exhibition
 will be given to symposium participants and guests.
 
    on thursday, april 22, beginning at 9 a.m., speakers will include:
 
    -- magen broshi, curator, shrine of the book, israel museum,
 jerusalem, on "qumran: the archaeological evidence;"
    -- p. kyle mccarter, albright professor of biblical and ancient
 near eastern studies, the johns hopkins university, on "the copper
 scroll;"
    -- lawrence h. schiffman, professor of hebrew and judaic studies,
 new york university, on "the dead sea scrolls and the history of
 judaism;" and
    -- james vanderkam, professor of theology, university of notre
 dame, on "messianism in the scrolls and in early christianity."
 
    the thursday afternoon sessions, at 1:30 p.m., include:
 
    -- devorah dimant, associate professor of bible and ancient jewish
 thought, university of haifa, on "qumran manuscripts: library of a
 jewish community;"
    -- norman golb, rosenberger professor of jewish history and
 civilization, oriental institute, university of chicago, on "the
 current status of the jerusalem origin of the scrolls;"
    -- shmaryahu talmon, j.l. magnas professor emeritus of biblical
 studies, hebrew university, jerusalem, on "the essential 'commune of
 the renewed covenant': how should qumran studies proceed?" will close
 the symposium.
 
    there will be ample time for question and answer periods at the
 end of each session.
 
    also on wednesday, april 21, at 11 a.m.:
    the library of congress and the israel antiquities authority
 will hold a lecture by esther boyd-alkalay, consulting conservator,
 israel antiquities authority, on "preserving the dead sea scrolls"
 in the mumford room, lm-649, james madison memorial building, the
 library of congress, 101 independence ave., s.e., washington, d.c.
     ------
    note a: for more information about admission to the symposium,
 please contact, in writing, dr. michael grunberger, head, hebraic
 section, african and middle eastern division, library of congress,
 washington, d.c. 20540.
  -30-
 --
 canada remote systems - toronto, ontario
 416-629-7000/629-7044
 