
 a.faris@trl.oz.au (aziz faris) writes:
 
 >helllo netters:
 
 >i was told the bible says that god took the body of the virgin mary as
 >she was being carried for burial. is this true, if so were in the bible
 >does it say that.
 
 >regards,
 >a.faris
 
 >[i think you're talking about the "assumption of the blessed virgin
 >mary".  it says that "the immaculate mother of god, the ever virgin
 >mary, having completed the course of her earthly life, was assumed
 >body and soul into heavenly glory."  this was defined by a papal
 >statement in 1950, though it had certainly been believed by some
 >before that.  like the immaculate conception, this is primarily a
 >roman catholic doctrine, and like it, it has no direct biblical
 >support.  note that catholics do not believe in "sola scriptura".
 >that is, they do not believe that the bible is the only source of
 >christian knowledge.  thus the fact that a doctrine has little
 >biblical support is not necessarily significant to them.  they believe
 >that truth can be passed on through traditions of the church, and also
 >that it can be revealed to the church.  i'm not interested in yet
 >another catholic/protestant argument, but if any catholics can tell us
 >the basis for these beliefs, i think it would be appropriate.  --clh]
 
 
 	again i find myself wanting to respond to a posting and having neither
 the time nor the proper materials with me (you would think i would learn my
 lesson by now--but i'm trying to finish writing my thesis and don't have tons
 of time.  anyway...)
 
 	the basis for our (the catholic church's) belief in the assumption of
 mary, body and soul, into heaven is that, to put it simply, the apostles 
 and all the early generation christians believed it.  in fact, throughout their
 ministry the apostles kept in close contact with mary, and 11 of the 12 were
 present when she died.  only thomas was missing--when he arrived several days
 later, he asked to be shown her body, and moved with pity, peter and several of
 the other apostles brought him to her tomb.  when they arrived the seal was
 still unbroken.  they broke the seal, entered, and the body was missing.  there
 was no sign that anyone had entered, forcibly or otherwise, and everything else
 was laid out exactly as it had been left.  the apostles present all believed
 that mary was assumed into heaven--and the apostles taught this in their  
 preaching (of course, this does not appear in any of the texts currently 
 considered part of the bible, but it does appear in other writings left behind
 by several of them.)  basicaly, as an apostolic church (ie. founded by the
 apostles), we believe that the teachings of the apostles, whether written down
 in the bible or written down in other sources, is true, providing that the
 authenticity of those other sources can be confirmed.  at least in the case of
 the assumption of mary, the authenticity is quite clear.
 
 	hope this helps--i would welcome anyone who has more information to
 	add to what i've said.
 					- mike walker
 					  mdw33310@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
 					  (univ. of illinois)
 					  ]
 