
 >[i think you're talking about the "assumption of the blessed virgin
 >mary".  it says that "the immaculate mother of god, the ever virgin
 >mary, having completed the course of her earthly life, was assumed
 >body and soul into heavenly glory."  this was defined by a papal
 >statement in 1950, though it had certainly been believed by some
 >before that.  like the immaculate conception, this is primarily a
 >roman catholic doctrine, and like it, it has no direct biblical
 >support.  note that catholics do not believe in "sola scriptura".
 >that is, they do not believe that the bible is the only source of
 >christian knowledge.  thus the fact that a doctrine has little
 >biblical support is not necessarily significant to them.  they believe
 >that truth can be passed on through traditions of the church, and also
 >that it can be revealed to the church.  i'm not interested in yet
 >another catholic/protestant argument, but if any catholics can tell us
 >the basis for these beliefs, i think it would be appropriate.  --clh]
 
 in the bible, there are a lot of instances where god speaks
 to people, where a person just "came to know" some piece
 of information, where a person walks off into the desert
 for "40 days", etc. with all of god's power he certainly can
 do whatever he wants when he wants it. the bible "ends"
 with the book of revelations. but does god's reign end there ? no.
 so who can say for sure that god's messages are either no longer
 happening or still happening ?
 
 i can now hear the clamor for proof. 8-)
 with the cold response i've gotten from the past from this
 group, it's very hard to get the point across. i'll only
 go over the physical stuff so that skeptics can look
 at documents stored somewhere. i've cited the uncorrupted
 bodies of saints before. they're still there. 8-)
 the apparitions at fatima, portugal culminated in a miracle
 specifically granted to show god's existence. that was
 the spinning/descending of the sun. it was seen in several
 countries. that event is "approved" by the pope. currently,
 images of mary in japan, korea, yugoslavia, philippines, africa
 are showing tears (natural or blood). these are still under
 investigation by the church. but realize that investigations
 take decades to finish. and if the message is christ will come
 in ten days, that's a bit too late, isn't it 8-).
 other events under investigation are inner locutions ("coming
 to know"), stigmata (the person exhibits christ's wounds. and
 they don't heal. and doctor's don't know why).
 non-believers are welcome to pore through documents, i'm sure.
 
 this stuff is not like koresh. or oral roberts (give me $5m
 or god will call me home). it's free. find out why they're
 happening (as we ourselves are studying why). if anybody
 can figure this out, tell us ! you can be of any religion.
 if you have the resources, go to one of the countries i mentioned.
 these are not "members only" events. god and mary invites 
 everybody.
 
 so in conclusion (finally) ...
 we rc's believe in the modern day manifestations of god and mary.
 we are scared to death sometimes although we're told not to.
 there are more proofs and events. and that is why "not everything
 is in the bible". although in a lot of the apparitions, we are told
 to read the bible.
 
 as far as the protestant vs. catholics issue is concerned...
 in the end, god's churches will unite. i'm not sure how.
 i have some idea. but the point is we shouldn't worry
 about the "versus" part. just do god's work. that's all
 that matters. unity will come.
 
 btw, i'm just a plain person. i'm not the pope's spokesperson.
 but i am rc.
 
 -- 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 mark ashley                        |disclaimer: my opinions. not harris'
 marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com      |
 the lost los angelino              |
 