
 ddavis@cass.ma02.bull.com (dave davis)
 writes:
 
  	ii. the deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because
  		they are not quoted by the nt authors.
 
 that is not quite accurate.  otherwise we would have the book
 of enoch in the canon (as dave noted).  one can say that the 
 apocrypha are not quoted by christ.  
 
 dave also writes:
 
 iii. the deuterocanonicals are not in the canon because
  		they teach doctrines contrary to the (uncontroverted)
  		parts of the canon.
  
  	then i answer: 
  		these is a logically invalid *a priori*. 
  		besides, we are talking about ot texts- 
  		which in many parts are superceded by the nt
  		(in the xtian view). would not this same
  		principle exclude _ecclesiastes_?
  		this principle cannot be consistently applied.
  
 i have to reject your argument here.  the spirit speaks with one
 voice, and he does not contradict himself.  
 
 the ultimate test of canonicity is whether the words are inspired
 by the spirit, i.e., god-breathed.  it is a test which is more
 guided by faith than by reason or logic.  the early church decided
 that the apocrypha did not meet this test--even though some books
 such as the wisdom of ben sirach have their uses.  for example,
 the lutheran hymn "now thank we all our god" quotes a passage
 from this book.
 
 the deutero-canonical books were added much later in the church's
 history.  they do not have the same spiritual quality as the
 rest of scripture.  i do not believe the church that added these
 books was guided by the spirit in so doing.  and that is where
 this sort of discussion ultimately ends.
 
 david h. wagner
 a confessional lutheran		"now thank we all our god
 				with heart and hands and voices,
 				who wondrous things hath done,
 				in whom his world rejoices;
 				who from our mother's arms
 				hath blessed us on our way
 				with countless gifts of love,
 				and still is our today."
 				--"nun danket alle gott", v. 1
 				--martin rinckart, 1636
 				(compare ben sirach 50: 22-24)
 