
 mark ashley's account of private revelation does not, as some might
 think, contradict my posting in which i said that the catholic church
 believes that public revelation, on which catholic doctrine is based,
 ended with the death of st. john, the last apostle.  in that posting
 i made sure i used the word "public".  public revelation contains
 god's truth intended for everyone to believe.  the revelation contained
 in the bible is a significant subset of public revelation.  private
 revelation is revelation that god gives to an individual.  he may speak
 directly to the individual, he may send an angel, or he may send the
 virgin mary or some lesser saint.  the only person who is required to
 believe a private revelation is the person to whom it is revealed.
 devotional practices may be based on reported private revelations,
 but doctrines can not.
 
 when an alleged private revelation attracts sufficient attention, the
 church may investigate it.  if the investigation indicates a likelihood
 that the alleged private revelation is in fact from god, it will be
 approved.  that means that it can be preached in the church.  however,
 it is still true that no one is required to believe that it came from
 god.  a catholic is free to deny the authenticity of even the most
 well attested and strongly approved private revelations, such as those
 at fatima and lourdes.  (i suspect that few if any catholics do reject
 fatima and lourdes, but if any do their rejection of them does not
 mean they are not orthodox catholics in good standing.)
 
 i do not have at hand a list of the criteria the church uses in
 evaluating an alleged private revelation--it's not something i need
 every day--but i know that one of the primary requirements is that
 nothing in the alleged private revelation can contradict anything
 known through public revelation
 -------
 marty helgesen
 bitnet: mnhcc@cunyvm   internet: mnhcc@cunyvm.cuny.edu
 
 "what if there were no such thing as a hypothetical situation?"
 