
 kwfinken@pooh.harpo.uccs.edu (kevin w. finkenbinder)  wrote:
 
 >scott@born.phys.virginia.edu wrote:
 >: 
 >:[intro deleted...] 
 >: 
 >:       1) jesus wasn't really descended from david as the messiah was supposed
 >: to have been. joseph was, but christians say that joseph wasn't related to
 >: jesus truthfully.
 >
 >        if you look at the geneology of christ in luke 3 and the one in
 >matthew 1 you will notice that they trace different lines back to david.
 >i have been told that one traces mary's line back to david and the other
 >traces joseph's line back to david.  (both of them go beyond david in
 >history)  acording to some of my jewish friends, "jewishness" is passed
 >to a child by the mother and the legal rights of "jewishness" are passed
 >through the father.  if it is true that one of these geneologies is
 >mary's, then christ's bloodline is from david through his mother.  this
 >also means that christ had all of the legal rights of a decendant of
 >david as according to at least roman law (and possibly mosaic law as
 >well, but i am not sure) joseph was christ's legal father.
 
 the argument for luke's genealogy being that of mary is very weak. according
 to luke 3:23
 
    and when he began his ministry, jesus himself was about 
    thirty years of age, being supposedly the son of joseph,
    the son of eli,
 
 aside from the fact that mary is not mentioned, there are two possible
 interpretations: either joseph was her father or he was her brother.
 clearly this is not acceptable.  a third would be that joseph, the son
 of eli, was her father and just happened to have the name as the man
 to whom she was betrothed. but that would seem to be grasping at
 straws. the most straightforward interpretation is that luke had no
 intention of tracing mary's genealogy (in which case he would have
 named her) but that he traces her husband's, from david's son nathan.
 
 the matthew descendant list most definitely traces down from david's
 son, solomon, to joseph.  matthew 1:16 reads:
 
    and to jacob was born joseph, the husband of mary, by whom was born
    jesus, who is called christ. 
 
 there are two apparent problems.  the first is, how to reconcile the
 two paternal genealogies - which diverge with the sons of david,
 solomon and nathan.  the second is, why is any genealogy of joseph
 relavent at all, if joseph had nothing to do with it.  if joseph was
 not jesus's physical father, then the original poster is quite
 correct, that claims for jesus's messianic heritage are not based on
 truth but only on appearances, whatever jesus's divine nature was.
 
 the second problem is easy, in my mind.  we assume that joseph was not
 involved in the conception of jesus in any way.  however, a holy
 spirit capable of working a physical conception in mary is also
 capable of employing the physical agency of joseph's seed in this
 work.  in our materialistic times we interpret viginity and its loss
 solely in terms of a physical act, whereas it is really a matter of
 purity on a much higher level as well.  the important thing is that
 neither mary nor joseph was conscious of any union between them (they
 had not "known"each other).  thus the first gospel's dedication of
 half its opening chapter to the genealogy of joseph is quite relevant
 to jesus, the virgin birth not- withstanding.
 
 to the first question there is an answer that creates, to begin with, more
 problems than it resolves.  it is that the two evangelists are relating 
 the births of two entirely different children of two entirely different
 sets of parents.  except for the names of the parents and the child, and 
 the birthplace in bethlehem there is no point in common between the two 
 stories.  matthew and luke converge in their accounts only thirty years
 later with the baptism of jesus in jordan.  rudolf steiner offered his
 explanation of how these accounts begin with two children and then converge
 with their accounts of the one jesus of nazareth.  he did not derive his
 resolution from biblical study or speculation, or from other external
 documents, and the discussion of "how this could be" might bring us beyond
 the limits of appropriateness for this newsgroup.  in any case, the
 details are described in steiner's "the spiritual guidance of the human 
 being and of humanity", "the gospel of st. luke", and "the gospel of st.
 matthew". 
 
 whether or not rudolf steiner's methods and explanation are accepted
 as valid, at least this interpretation resolves the apparent
 contradictions of the two genealogies while leaving the text intact.
 
 as for the passing of one's jewishness through the mother, this was
 never an issue with jesus. no one ever questioned his or mary's
 jewishness.  the issue of the genealogies has to do with his paternal
 line of descent from david, the king.
 
 gerry palo (73237.2006@compuserve.com)
 