
 in article <may.5.02.53.10.1993.28880@athos.rutgers.edu> koberg@spot.colorado.edu (allen koberg) writes:
 
 >.....................................................there is dis-
 >crepancy even among charismatic organizations as to the proper use
 >of tongues.  be it revelatory with interpretation, for prayer use,
 >or for signifying believers (which i doubt since any one can do it).
 >pentecostals (assembly of god, church of christ), seem to espouse all
 >three.  neo-pentecostals tend to view prayer use and as a sign as the
 >uses.  speaking in tongues during a service is not usually done by
 >neo-pentecostals because for the most part, they still attend protestant
 >churches.  non-denominational churches seem to view the use as a sign
 >as merely optional, but recommended.
 
 koberg,
 
 	just a couple of minor corrections here...
 
 	1)  the churches of christ do not usually believe in speaking in
 tongues, in fact many of them are known for being strongly opposed to
 pentecostal teaching.  you are probably thinking of church of god in
 christ, the largest african-american pentecostal denomination.
 
 	2)  i'm not sure what you mean by "signifying believers"  but it
 should be pointed out that the assemblies of god does not now, nor has it
 ever, held that speaking in tongues is the sign that one is a christian. 
 the doctrine that traditional pentecostals (including the a/g) maintain is
 that speaking in tongues is the sign of a second experience after becoming
 a christian in which one is "baptized in the holy spirit"  that may be
 what you were referring to, but i point this out because pentecostals are
 frequently labeled as believing that you have to speak in tongues in order
 to be a christian.  such a position is only held by some groups and not the
 majority of pentecostals.   many pentecostals will quote the passage in
 mark 16 about "these signs following them that believe" but they generally
 do not interpret this as meaning if you don't pactice the signs you aren't
 "saved".
 
 	3)  i know it's hard to summarize the beliefs of a movement that
 has such diversity, but i think you've made some pretty big
 generalizations here.  do "neo-pentecostals" only believe in tongues as a
 sign and tongues as prayer but not tongues as revelatory with a message? 
 i've never heard of that before.  in fact i would have characterized them
 as believing the same as pentecostals except less likely to see tongues as
 a sign of spirit baptism.  also, while neo-pentecostals may not be
 inclined to speak in tongues in the non-pentecostal churches they attend,
 they do have their own meetings and, in many cases, a whole church will be
 charismatic.
 
 ken banner
 dept. of religious studies
 university of pennsylvania
 kbanner@philae.sas.upenn.edu 
 