
 can someone cite biblical references to homosexuality being immoral, other
 than leviticus? so far, when i ask, around here, i get the verses from
 leviticus spouted at me, but the whole rest of that book tends to be
 ignored by christians (haven't seen any stonings in a _long_ time :-).
 
 later,
 max (bob) muir
 
 [the list was posted not long ago, as i recall, aside from lev, commonly
 cited passages are:
 
 the story of sodom.  note however that this was a homosexual rape, and
 there's no disagreement that that is wrong.  i take an intermediate
 position on this: note that sodom is referred to elsewhere in the
 bible for its sinfulness.  it doesn't seem to have been known
 specifically for homosexuality.  rather, i think it was considered a
 cesspool of all sins. however from what we know of jewish attitudes,
 homosexuality would have contributed to the horror of the action
 described.  (it almost seems to have been contrived to combine about
 as many forms of evil in one act as possible: homosexual rape of
 guests, who were actually angels.)  but this story is not specifically
 about homosexuality.
 
 in the nt, the clear references are all from paul's letters.  in rom
 1, there is a passage that presupposes that homosexuality is an evil.
 note that the passage isn't about homosexuality -- it's about
 idolatry.  homosexuality is visited on people as a punishment, or at
 least result, of idolatry.  there are a number of arguments over this
 passage.  it does not use the word "homosexuality", and it is referring
 to people who are by nature heterosexual practicing homosexuality.
 so it's not what i'd call an explicit teaching against all homosexuality.
 but it does seem to support what would be a natural assumption anyway,
 that paul shares the general negative jewish attitude towards 
 homosexuality.
 
 the other passages occur in lists of sins, in i cor 6:9, and i tim
 1:10.  unfortunately it's not entirely clear what the words used here
 mean.  there have been suggestions that one has a broader meaning,
 such as "wanton", and that another may be specifically "male
 prostitute".  again, we don't have here a precise teaching about
 homosexuality, but it is at least weak supportive evidence that paul
 shared the ot's negative judgement on homosexuality.
 
 jude 1:7 is sometimes cited, however it's probably not relevant.  the
 context in jude involves angels.  since those who were almost raped in
 sodom were angels, it seems likely that "strange flesh" refers to
 intercourse with angels.
 
 as you can see, the nt evidence is such that people's conclusion is
 determined by their approach to the bible.  conservatives note that
 the passages from paul's letters imply that he accepted the ot
 prohibition.  this is enough for them to regard it as having nt
 endorsement.  liberals note that there's no specific teaching, and no
 clear definition of what is being prohibited or why (is the concern in
 rom 1 the connection of homosexuality to pagan worship?  what exactly
 do the words in the lists of sins mean?).  thus some believe it is
 legitimate to regard this as a attitude paul took with him from his
 background and not a specific teaching of the gospel.
 
 this is an explosive topic, which tends to result in long
 dissertations on the exact meaning of various greek words.  but it's
 clear to me that that's mostly irrelevant.  what it really comes down
 to is whether people are looking to the bible for law or whether they
 believe that such as approach is inconsistent with the gospel.  this
 appears to depend upon one's reaction to the message of the bible as a
 whole, as well as one's perception of the needs of the church today.
 this is a difference of approach at least as serious as the difference
 between protestant and catholic in the 16th cent, and one where both
 sides believe that the bible is so obviously on their side that they
 keep thinking all they have to do is quote a few more passages and the
 other side will finally come to their senses.  that makes things
 very frustrating for a moderator, who realizes that such an optimistic
 outcome is not very likely...
 
 --clh]
 