
 rex (rexlex@fnal.fnal.gov) writes:
 
 >it is also of interest to note that in 1825, on the occasion of a
 jubilee, pope >leo the 12th had a medallion cast with his own image on
 one side and on >the other side, the church of rome symbolized as a
 "woman, holding in >her left hand a cross, and in her right a cup with
 legend around her, >'sedet super universum',  'the whole world is her
 seat."
 
 	you read more into the medal than it is worth.  the woman is the
 church.  catholics have always called our church "holy mother church"
 and our "mother."  an example would be from st. cyprian of carthage, who
 wrote in 251 ad, "can anyone have god for his father, who does not have
 the church for his mother?"
 	hence the image of the church as a woman, holding a cross and a cup,
 which tell of the crucifxition of our lord, and of the power of his
 blood (the grail legend, but also, more significantly, it shows that
 "this is the cup of the new covenant in my blood, which shall be shed
 for you and for many." (luke 22.20), the cup represents the new covenant
 and holds the blood of redemption).  the fact that the woman is holding
 both and is said to have the whole world for her seat, is that the
 catholic church is catholic, that is universal, and is found throughout
 the world, and the church shows the crucifixtion and applies the blood
 of redemption to all mankind by this spread of hers, thorugh which the
 holy sacrafice of the mass, can be said and celebrated in all the
 nations as malachi predicted in malachi 1.11, "from the rising of the
 sun to its setting, my name is great among the gentiles, and everywhere
 there is sacrafice, and there is offered to my name a clean oblation,
 for my name is great among the gentiles, says the lord of hosts."  and
 so we acknowledge what st. paul wrote "for as often as you eat this
 bread and drink this cup, you show the lord's death until he comes." (1
 corinthians 11.26)
 
 	you are quite right about the identification of "babylon the great,
 mother of all harlots" with rome.  i think we simply disagree as to what
 time period of rome the apostle john is talking about.
 
 andy byler
 