
 regarding the consequences of the original sin:
 
 catholics believe that what adam primarily lost by his sin, for
 himself and the human race, was sanctifying grace.  this is basically
 a share in the divine life.  take a rock and make it able to talk:
 what god does to a human being through sanctifying grace is similar.
 it makes such a one able to live on a plane that is above the powers
 of any possible creature.  this is the "everlasting life" that the new
 testament speaks of.
 
 what christ did when he came was to restore this life of sanctifying
 grace to the human race.  he instituted the sacraments as the means by
 which this life is given to people, and its increase fostered.
 
 the absence of sanctifying grace at death means automatic exclusion
 from heaven.  the nature of heaven is such that it's impossible for a
 human being to have any part in it without the gift of sanctifying
 grace.  to use my example, it would be like taking that rock and
 attempting to hold a conversation with it: rocks cannot talk.  neither
 can human beings live in heaven without sanctifying grace.
 
 this all obviously applies equally well to infants or adults, since
 both have souls.  infants must be baptized, therefore, or they cannot
 enter into heaven.  they too need this form of life in them, or they
 cannot enter into heaven.
 
 turning it around, infant baptism is good supporting evidence for the
 catholic belief in sanctifying grace.  unless baptism causes some
 change in an infant's soul, there is no particular reason to insist on
 the practice.  yet infant baptism was probably practiced by the
 apostles themselves, and was *certainly* part of the church shortly
 thereafter.
 
 there is evidence for infant baptism in the new testament itself: 1
 cor 1:16, acts 16:15, 16:33, 18:8, also acts 11:14.  it is known for
 sure that at least one disciple of the apostle john was baptized as an
 infant: st. polycarp (because of a remark he makes in the acts of his
 martyrdom).  st. justin martyr mentions men and women baptized as
 infants.  there is direct evidence in st.  irenaeus's "against
 heresies", and in tertullian's "on baptism".  all these so far
 mentioned are in the first 170 years after our lord's death.  after
 that, there starts to be tons of evidence for the practice.
 