
 in article <may.7.01.08.16.1993.14381@athos.rutgers.edu> whitsebd@nextwork.rose-hulman.edu writes:
 >any one who thinks that homosexuality and christianity are compatible should check  
 >out:
 >	romans 1:27
 >	i corinthians 6:9
 >	i timothy 1:10
 >	jude 1:7
 >	ii peter 2:6-9
 >	gen. 19
 >	lev  18:22
 >(to name a few of the verses that pertain to homosexuality)
 >
 but wouldn't that go for any sin.  my father told me when he was growing
 up catholics were not allowed to associate with anyone who was divorced.
 there are a few verses prohibitting divorce.  somehow, divorce became
 acceptable (even in catholicism anullments).  certainly it is no longer
 a sin to associate with a divorced person.  the point is that each person
 has their own temptations to deal with.  paul repeatedly talks about the
 "thorn" in his side, some think it refers to lust, others pride, but
 who knows.  whatever the thorn was, apparently it was not "compatible"
 with christianity, yet does that make his epistles any less?  the bible
 warns us against judging, greed, anxiety, impure thoughts, bearing grudges,
 etc., etc.  i suppose we should seek out all the so-called christians
 who have entertained impure thoughts and oust them.  all those who have
 given in to greed, get 'em outta here.  jesus pointed out that he
 was the physician for the sinners.  any attempts to make homosexuals
 feel unwelcome because of our discomfort with homosexuality is incompatible
 with christianity.  is our hatred so deep that rather than see someone
 try to become closer to jesus, we need to keep them away.  does jesus need
 us to screen out those guilty of a particular sin.  do we really mistrust 
 jesus when he says he can forgive any sin?
 
 think about it.  among the people jesus encountered were sinners and
 the pharisees.  the sinners he embraced and forgave.  the pharisees,
 hypocritcal, unmerciful, self-righteous, pointed out others sins and
 did not seek and thus did not gain forgiveness of their own sins.  what
 i take from this and other verses is that if we do not admit our sins,
 those sins will not be forgiven.  and since those guilty of even one sin
 are guilty of the whole law, those not repenting the judging of others
 are guilty, as guilty as if they committed the same sin they judged others
 of.
 
 the poor in spirit, meek, humble, merciful, pure of heart, peacemakers, 
 those who thirst for justice, those who suffer for his sake are blessed.
 
 joe moore
 