
 someone referred to my faq essay on homosexuality.  since it hasn't
 been posted for some time (and i've modified it somewhat since the
 last time), i'm taking this opportunity to post it.  there is another
 entry in the faq containing comments by some other contributors.  they
 can be retrieved from ftp.rutgers.edu as
 pub/soc.religion.christian/others/homosexuality.  it contains far
 more detail on the exegetical issues than i give here, though
 primarily from a conservative point of view.
 
 ----------------------------
 
 this posting summarizes several issues involving homosexuality and
 christians.  this is a frequently asked question, so i do not post the
 question each time it occurs.  rather this is an attempt to summarize
 the postings we get when we have a discussion.  it summarizes
 arguments for allowing christian homosexuality, since most people
 asking the question already know the arguments against it.  the most
 common -- but not the only -- question dealt with herein is "how can a
 christian justify being a homosexual, given what the bible says about
 it?"
 
 first, on the definition of 'homosexual'.  many groups believe that
 there is a homosexual "orientation", i.e. a sexual attraction to
 members of the same sex.  this is distinguished from actual homosexual
 sexual activity.  homosexuals who abstain from sex are considered by
 most groups to be acceptable.  however in a lot of discussion, the
 term 'homosexual' means someone actually engaging in homosexual sex.
 this is generally not accepted outside the most 'liberal' groups.  in
 this paper i'm going to use 'homosexual' as meaning a person engaging
 in sexual acts with another of the same sex.  i haven't heard of any
 biblical argument against a person with homosexual orientation who
 remains celebate.
 
 i think most people now admit that there is a predisposition to be
 homosexual.  this is often called a 'homosexual orientation'.  it is
 not known whether it is genetic or environmental.  there is evidence
 suggesting each.  the best evidence i've seen is that homosexuality is
 not a single phenomenon, but has a number of different causes.  one of
 them is probably genetic.  there are several groups that try to help
 people move from being homosexual to heterosexual.  the best-known is
 exodus international".  the reports i've seen (and i haven't read the
 detailed literature, just the summary in the minority opinion to the
 presbyterian church's infamous report on human sexuality) suggest that
 these programs have very low success rates, and that there are
 questions about how real even the successes are.  but there certainly
 are people who say they have converted.  however this issue is not as
 important as it sounds.  those who believe homosexuality is wrong
 believe it is intrinsically wrong, defined as such by god.  the fact
 that it's hard to get out of being a homosexual is no more relevant
 than the fact that it's hard to escape from being a drug addict.  if
 it's wrong, it's wrong.  it may affect how we deal with people though.
 if it's very difficult to change, this may tend to make us more
 willing to forgive it.
 
 one more general background issue: it's common to quote a figure that
 10% of the population is homosexual.  i asked one of our experts where
 this came from.  here's his response: kinsey (see below) is the source
 of the figure 10 percent.  he defines sexuality by behavior, not by
 orientation, and ranked all persons on a scale from zero (completely
 heterosexual) to 6 (completely heterosexual).  according to kinsey,
 one-third of all male adults have had at least one experience of
 orgasm homosexually post puberty.  ten percent of all adult males have
 most of their experiences of homosexually.  that was in 1948.  the
 percentages held true in a followup study done by the kinsey
 institute, based on data in the early seventies but not published
 until the early 80s or so, by bell and weinberg, i believe.  i can't
 put my hand on this latter reference, but here is the online
 information for kinsey's own study as it appears in iris, the catalog
 at rutgers:
    author kinsey, alfred charles, 1894-1956.
     title sexual behavior in the human male [by] alfred c. kinsey. wardell b.
           pomeroy [and] clyde e. martin.
 publisher philadelphia, w. b. saunders co., 1948.
   descrip xv, 804 p. diagrs. 24 cm.
     notes "based on surveys made by members of the staff of indiana
 	  university, and supported by the national research council's 
 	  committee for research on problems of sex by means of funds 
 	  contributed by the medical division of the rockefeller foundation."
 	  * bibliography: p. 766-787.
 other aut pomeroy, wardell baxter, joint author. * martin, clyde eugene,
 	  joint author.
  subjects sex. * u. s. -- moral conditions.
   lc card    48005195
 this figure is widely used in all scholarly discussions and has even
 been found to hold true in several other cultures, as noted in the
 recent newsweek coverstory "is this child gay?" (feb. 24, 1992).  a
 journalist is running the rounds of talk shows this season promoting
 her book that allegedly refutes kinsey's study, but the scholarly
 world seems to take her for a kook......
 
 i've seen some objections to the kinsey's study, but not in enough
 detail to include here.  (if someone would like to contribute another
 view, i'd be willing to include it.)
 
 most christians believe homosexuality (at least genital sex) is wrong.
 not all, however.  a few denominations accept it.  the metropolitan
 community churches is the best-known -- it was formed specifically to
 accept homosexuals.  however the united church of christ also allows
 it, and i think a couple of other groups may as well.  the episcopal
 church seems to accept it some areas but not others.  in churches that
 have congregational government, you'll find a few congregations that
 accept it (even among southern baptists, though the number is probably
 only one or two congregations).  but these are unusual -- few churches
 permit homosexual church leaders.  how carefully they enforce this is
 another issue.  i don't have any doubt that there are homosexual
 pastors of just about every denomination, some more open than others.
 
 as to the arguments over the biblical and other issues, here's an
 attempt to summarize the issues:
 
 the most commonly cited reference by those favoring acceptance of
 homosexuality in previous discussions has been john boswell:
 "christianity, social tolerance, and homosexuality", u chicago press,
 1980.
 
 the argument against is pretty clear.  there are several explicit laws
 in the ot, e.g. leviticus 20:13, and in rom 1 paul seems pretty negative on
 homosexuality.  beyond these references, there are some debates.  some
 passages often cited on the subject probably are not relevant.  e.g.
 the sin which the inhabitants of sodom proposed to carry out was
 homosexual *rape*, not homosexual activity between consenting adults.
 (there's even some question whether it was homosexual, since the
 entities involved were angels.)  it was particularly horrifying
 because it involved guests, and the responsibility towards guests in
 that culture was very strong.  (this is probably the reason lot
 offered his daughter -- it was better to give up his daughter than to
 allow his guests to be attacked.)  if you look through a concordance
 for references to sodom elsewhere in the bible, you'll see that few
 seem to imply that homosexuality was their sin.  there's a jewish
 interpretive tradition that the major sin was abuse of guests.  at any
 rate, there's no debate that homosexual *rape* is wrong.
 
 i do not discuss leviticus because the law there is part of a set
 of laws that most christians do not consider binding.  so unless nt
 justification can be found, lev. alone would not settle the issue.
 
 the nt references are all in paul's letters.  a number of the
 references from paul are lists of sins in which the words are fairly
 vague.  boswell argues that the words occuring in these lists do not
 mean homosexual.  here's what he says: the two greek words that appear
 in the lists (i.e. i cor 6:9 and i tim 1:10) are /malakos/ and
 /arsenokoitai/.  unfortunately it is not entirely clear what the words
 actually mean.  /malakos/, with a basic meaning of soft, has a variety
 of metaphorical meanings in ethical writing.  boswell suggests
 "wanton" as a likely equivalent.  he also reports that the unanimous
 interpretation of the church, including greek-speaking christians, was
 that in this passage it referred to masturbation, a meaning that has
 vanished only in the 20th cent., as that practice has come to be less
 frowned-upon.  (he cites references as late as the 1967 edition of the
 catholic encyclopedia that identify it as masturbation.)  he
 translates /arsenokotai/ as male prostitute, giving evidence that none
 of the church fathers understood the term as referring to
 homosexuality in general.  a more technical meaning, suggested by the
 early latin translations, would be "active mode homosexual male
 prostitute", but in his view paul did not intend it so technically.
 
 for a more conservative view, i consulted gordon fee's commentary on i
 cor.  he cites evidence that /malakos/ often meant effeminate.
 however boswell warns us that in greek culture effeminate is not
 necessarily synonymous with homosexual, though it may be associated
 with some kinds of homosexual behavior.  given what boswell and fee
 say taken together, i suspect that the term is simply not very
 definite, and that while it applies to homosexuals in some cases, it
 isn't a general term for homosexuality.  while fee argues against
 boswell with /arsenokotai/ as well, he ends up suggesting a
 translation that seems essentially the same.  the big problem with it
 is that the word is almost never used.  paul's writing is the first
 occurence.  the fact that the word is clearly composed of "male" and
 "f**k" unfortunately doesn't quite tell us the meaning, since it
 doesn't tell us whether the male is the subject or object of the
 action.  examples of compound words formed either way can be given.
 in theory it could refer to rapists, etc.  it's dangerous to base
 meaning purely on etymology, or you'll conclude that "goodbye" is a
 religious expression because it's based on "god by with ye".  however
 since boswell, fee, and niv seem to agree on "homosexual male
 prostitute", that seems as good a guess as any.  note that this
 translation misses the strong vulgarity of the term however (something
 which fee and boswell agree on, but do not attempt to reproduce in
 their translation).
 
 in my opinion, the strongest nt reference to homosexuality is romans
 1.  boswell points out that rom 1 speaks of homosexuality as something
 that happened to people who were naturally heterosexual, as a result
 of their corruption due to worshipping false gods.  one could argue
 that this is simply an example: that if a homosexual worshipped false
 gods, he would also fall into degradation and perhaps become
 heterosexual.  however i find this argument somewhat forced, and in
 fact our homosexual readers have not seriously proposed that this is
 what paul meant.
 
 however i am not convinced that rom 1 is sufficient to create a law
 against homosexuality for christians.  what paul is describing in rom
 1 is not homosexuality among christians -- it's homosexuality that
 appeared among idolaters as one part of a whole package of wickedness.
 despite the impression left by his impassioned rhetoric, i'm sure paul
 does not believe that pagans completely abandoned heterosexual sex.
 given his description of their situation, i rather assume that their
 heterosexual sex would also be debased and shameless.  so yes, i do
 believe that this passage indicates a negative view of homosexuality.
 but in all fairness, the "shameless" nature of their acts is a
 reflection of the general spiritual state of the people, and not a
 specific feature of homosexuality.
 
 my overall view of the situation is the following: i think we have
 enough evidence to be confident that paul disapproved of
 homosexuality.  rom 1 seems clear.  while i cor 6:9 and i tim 1:10 are
 not unambiguous and general condemnations of homosexuality, they do
 not seem like wording that would come from someone who approved of
 homosexuality or even considered it acceptable in some cases.  on the
 other hand, none of these passages contains explicit teachings on the
 subject.  rom 1 is really about idolatry.  it refers to homosexuality
 in passing.
 
 the result of this situation is that people interpret these passages
 in light of their general approach to scripture.  for those who look
 to scripture for laws about issues such as this, it not surprising
 that they would consider these passages to be nt endorsement of the ot
 prohibition.  for those whose approach to the bible is more liberal,
 it is not surprising that they regard paul's negative view of
 homosexuality as something that he took from his jewish upbringing
 without any serious reexamination in the light of the gospel.  as
 readers of this group know by now, the assumptions behind these
 approaches are so radically different that people tend to foam at the
 mouth when they see the opposing view described.  there's not a lot i
 can do as moderator about such a situation.
 
 a number of discussions in the past centered around the sort of
 detailed exegesis of texts that is described above.  however in fact
 i'm not convinced that defenders of homosexuality actually base their
 own beliefs on such analyses.  the real issue seems to rest on the
 question of whether paul's judgement should apply to modern
 homosexuality.
 
 one commonly made claim is that paul had simply never faced the kinds
 of questions we are trying to deal with.  he encountered homosexuality
 only in contexts where most people would probably agree that it was
 wrong.  he had never faced the experience of christians who try to act
 "straight" and fail, and he had never faced christians who are trying
 to define a christian homosexuality, which fits with general christian
 ideals of fidelity and of seeing sexuality as a mirror of the
 relationship between god and man.  it is unfair to take paul's
 judgement on homosexuality among idolaters and use it to make
 judgements on these questions.
 
 another is the following: in paul's time homosexuality was associated
 with a number of things that christians would not find acceptable.  it
 was part of temple prostitution.  among private citizens, it often
 occured between adults and children or free people and slaves.  i'm
 not in a position to say that it always did, but there are some
 reasons to think so.  the ancients distinguished between the active
 and passive partner.  it was considered disgraceful for a free adult
 to act as the passive partner.  (this is the reason that an active
 mode homosexual prostitute would be considered disgraceful.  his
 customers would all be people who enjoyed the passive role.)  this
 supports the idea that it would tend not to be engaged in between two
 free adult males, at least not without some degree of scandal.
 clearly christian homosexuals would not condone sex with children,
 slaves, or others who are not in a position to be fully responsible
 partners.  (however fee's commentary on i cor cites some examples from
 ancient literature of homosexual relationships that do seem to involve
 free adults in a reasonably symmetrical way.  thus the considerations
 in this paragraph shouldn't be pushed too far.  homosexuality may have
 been discredited for jews by some of these associations, but there
 surely must be been cases that were not prostitutes and did not
 involve slaves or children.)
 
 some people have argued that aids is a judgement against
 homosexuality.  i'd like to point out that aids is transmitted by
 promiscuous sex, both homosexual and heterosexual.  someone who has a
 homosexual relationship that meets christian criteria for marriage is
 not at risk for aids.
 
 note that there is good reason from paul's general approach to doubt
 that he would concede homosexuality as a fully equal alternative,
 apart from any specific statements on homosexuality.  i believe his
 use of the genesis story would lead him to regard heterosexual
 marriage as what god ordained.
 
 however the way paul deals with pastoral questions provides a warning
 against being too quick to deal with this issue legally.
 
 i claim that the question of how to counsel homosexual christians is
 not entirely a theological issue, but also a pastoral one.  paul's
 tendency, as we can see in issues such as eating meat and celebrating
 holidays, is to be uncompromising on principle but in pastoral issues
 to look very carefully at the good of the people involved, and to
 avoid insisting on perfection when it would be personally damaging.
 for example, while paul clearly believed that it was acceptable to eat
 meat, he wanted us to avoid pushing people into doing an action about
 which they had personal qualms.  for another example, paul obviously
 would have preferred to see people (at least in some circumstances)
 remain unmarried.  yet if they were unable to do so, he certainly
 would rather see them married than in a state where they might be
 tempted to fornication.
 
 i believe one could take a view like this even while accepting the
 views paul expressed in rom 1.  one may believe that homosexuality is
 not what god intended, that it occured as a result of sin, but still
 conclude that at times we have to live with it.  note that in the
 creation story work enters human life as a result of sin.  this
 doesn't mean that christians can stop working when we are saved.  the
 question is whether you believe that homosexuality is in itself sinful
 or whether you believe that it's a misfortune that is in a broad sense
 due to human sinfulness.  if you're willing to consider the latter
 approach, then it becomes a pastoral judgement whether there is more
 damage caused by finding a way to live with it or trying to cure it.
 the dangers of trying to cure it are that the attempt most often
 fails, and when it does, you end up with damage ranging from
 psychological damage to suicide, as well as broken marriages when
 attempts at living as a heterosexual fail.
 
 this is going to depend upon one's assessment of the inherent nature
 of homosexuality.  if you believe it is a very serious wrong, then you
 may be willing to run high risks of serious damage to get rid of it.
 clearly we do not generally suggest that people live with a tendency
 to steal or with drug addiction, even though attempts to cure these
 conditions are also very difficult.  however these conditions are
 intrinsically damaging in a way that is not so obvious for
 homosexuality.  (many problems associated with homosexuality are
 actually problems of promiscuity, not homosexuality.  this includes
 aids.  i take for granted that the only sort of homosexual
 relationships a christian would consider allowing would be equivalent
 to christian heterosexual relationships.)
 
 in the course of discussing this over the last decade or so, we've
 heard a lot of personal testimony from fellow christians who are in
 this situation.  i've also seen summaries of various research and the
 results of various efforts for "conversion".  (aside from the
 presbyterian report mentioned above, there's an faq that summarizes
 our readers' reports on this question.)  the evidence is that
 long-term success in changing orientation is rare enough to be on a
 par with healing miracles.  the danger in advising christians to
 depend upon such a change is clear: when "conversion" doesn't happen,
 which is almost always, the people are often left in despair, feeling
 excluded from a church that has nothing more to say but a requirement
 of life-long celibacy.  paul recognized (though in a different
 context) that such a demand is not practical for most people, and i
 think the history of clerical celibacy has strongly reinforced that
 judgement.  the practical result is that homosexuals end up in the gay
 sex clubs and the rest of the sordid side of homosexuality.  maybe
 homosexuality isn't god's original ideal, but i can well imagine paul
 preferring to see people in long-term, committed christian
 relationships than promiscuity.  as with work -- which genesis
 suggests wasn't part of god's original ideal either -- i think such
 relationships can still be a vehicle for people sharing god's love
 with each other.
 
 there's an issue of biblical interpretation underlying this
 discussion.  the issue is that of "cultural relativism".  that is,
 when paul says that something is wrong, should this be taken as an
 eternal statement, or are things wrong because of specific situations
 in the culture of the time?  conservative christians generally insist
 on taking prohibitions as absolute, since otherwise the bible becomes
 subjective -- what is to stop us from considering everything in it as
 relative?
 
 when looking at this issue, it's worth noting that no one completely
 rejects the concept of cultural relativism.  there are a number of
 judgements in the new testament that even conservative christians
 consider to be relative.  the following judgements are at least as
 clear in the bible as anything said on homosexuality:
 
   - prohibition against charging interest (this occurs 18 times in
 	the ot -- it's not in the nt, but i mention it here because
 	until relatively recently the church did consider it binding
 	on christians)
   - prohibition against swearing oaths
   - endorsement of slavery as an institution
   - judgement of tax collectors as sinner
 
 we do not regard these items as binding.  in most cases, i believe the
 argument is essentially one of cultural relativism.  briefly:
 
   - prohibition of interest is appropriate to a specific
 	agrarian society that the bible was trying to build,
 	but not to our market economy.
   - few people believe that american judicial oaths have the
 	same characteristics as the kind of oaths jesus was
 	concerned about
   - most people believe that paul was simply telling people
 	how to live within slavery, but not endorsing it as
 	an institution
   - for people believe that the irs is morally equivalent to
 	roman tax farming
 
 the point i'm trying to make is that before applying biblical
 prohibitions to the 20th cent., we need to look at whether the 20th
 cent. actions are the same.  when christian homosexuals say that their
 relationships are different than the greek homosexuality that paul
 would have been familiar with, this is exactly the same kind of
 argument that is being made about judicial oaths and tax collectors.
 until fairly recently christians prohibited taking of interest, and
 many christians regarded slavery as divinely endorsed.  (indeed,
 slavery is one of the more common metaphors for the relationship
 between god and human beings -- christians are often called servants
 or slaves of god.)
 
 i am not trying to say that everything in the bible is culturally
 relative.  rather, i'm trying to say that *some* things are, and
 therefore it is not enough to say that because something appears in
 the bible, that ends the discussion.  we need to look at whether the
 action we're talking about now has the same moral implications as the
 one that the bible was talking about.  if christians want to argue
 that there are reasons to think that the prohibitions against
 homosexuality are still binding, i'm willing to listen.  those who
 claim that the question doesn't need to be looked at are kidding
 themselves (unless they are part of the small minority who really obey
 all the rules listed above).
 
 one thing that worries me is the great emotions that this issue
 creates.  when you consider the weakness of the biblical evidence --
 some laws in leviticus, a passage in rom whose subject matter is
 really idolatry rather than homosexuality, and a couple of lists whose
 words are ambiguous -- the amount of concern this is raising among
 christians seems rather out of proportion.  this should suggest to
 people that there are reasons other than simply biblical involved.
 this is true on both sides -- clearly homosexual christians are as
 strongly motivated to find ways of discrediting the biblical arguments
 as conservative christians are to find biblical arguments.  but i
 can't help feeling that the bible is being used by both sides as a way
 of justifying attitudes which come from other sources.  this is a
 dangerous situation for christians.
 
 on the other side of the issue, i would like to note some problems i
 have with the pro-homosexual position as it is commonly presented.
 one of the most common arguments is that homosexuality is biologically
 determined.  i.e. "god made me homosexual", and i have no choice.  i
 think "god made me homosexual" is a fine view for people who already
 believe on other grounds that homosexuality is acceptable.  but i
 don't see it as an argument for acceptability.
 
 many people think that alcholism is largely biological, and drug
 addiction may turn out to be as well.  that doesn't mean it's ok.
 most of us have particular things we tend to do wrong.  some people
 get angry easily.  others tend to be arrogant.  others tend to be
 attraced to women who are married to someone else.  homosexuality (if
 we view it as wrong) wouldn't be different than any of these other
 things.  if we are going to follow god, we all end up at one time or
 another having to work to overcome bad habits and particular
 temptations that cause us problems.  none of us can sit back and say
 that because god made us the way we are we can just relax.  as jesus
 said, we all have to take up our cross daily.  this concept of dying
 to self (which also appears throughout paul's letters) seems to
 suggest that there are going to be things about ourselves that we we
 are called on not to accept.  paul's letters and the experience of
 christians throughout history show us that sin is ingrained in us, and
 the battle against it is lifelong and difficult.  the fact that
 homosexuality is difficult to fight doesn't necessarily say it's ok.
 maybe this isn't the place where we have to die to self.  but i'd like
 to make sure that those who think it isn't are fighting the battle
 somewhere else, and not rejecting the concept that all christians have
 to fight against the deeply engrained habits of sin.
 