
 news@cbnewsk.att.com writes:
 : arrogance is arrogance.  it is not the result of religion, it is the result
 : of people knowing or firmly believing in an idea and one's desire to show
 : others of one's rightness.  i assume that god decided to be judge for our
 : sake as much as his own, if we allow him who is kind and merciful be the 
 : judge, we'll probably be better off than if others judged us or we judged 
 : ourselves.  
 
 i'm not sure i agree with this 100%.  i agree that arrogance is not the result
 of religion and that god is a far better judge than we are.  i also agree if
 you mean to say that arrogance shows up in the form of trying to prove one's
 superior knowledge, rightness, or holiness over another person's beliefs.
 
 i need to be careful to understand what you mean here so that i do not fall
 into the mistake of misrepresenting your views.  if i fall down in this area
 i hope you will forgive me.
 
 arrogance is not the result of believing one is right or of believing that
 one's god is greater than the god's of others or of believing that one's
 religion is better than other religions.  these are all naturally self-implied
 beliefs.
 
 it is self-contradictory to say that i believe my current beliefs to be wrong.
 were i to find myself in error, my beliefs would naturally change and follow
 what i believe to be right.  therefore, i must always consider my beliefs
 correct.  that's not arrogance.  that's unavoidable behavior.
 
 it is nonsense to say that i believe another person's god to be greater than
 my god.  were his or her god greater, wouldn't i be obligated to change so
 that their god would become my god?  we are naturally obligated to worship
 that god which we deem to be the greatest.  why should we feel obligated to
 worship a second best god for the sake of feeling humble?
 
 arrogance is not necessarily thinking onesself to be better looking or more
 intelligent or stronger or having more resources than another person.  no
 doubt many will have to chew on this one awhile.  were passive observation
 of one's superior points arrogance, then god would be most arrogant of all.
 
 humility does not rest in slandering or belittling god's work of creation in
 our lives.  people often go around trying to be humble saying to one another,
 "i'm not very smart.  i'm poor.  i'm not good looking.  i'm just a worm in
 the ground.  i'm such a weak person and although i don't want to sin, i
 really cannot help it."  were this person truely humble, he would take a
 different approach.  "god, thank you for making me the way you did.  i know
 that you never do anything second best.  yet with all that you have given me,
 i have been so unthankful.  you've given me power to resist the devil.  i
 have not used it but have indulged myself in doing exactly what you have said
 not to do.  i have slandered your creation in my life and have credited myself
 with humility for doing so.  lord, with all you've given me, i have been
 completely unfaithful and i do not deserve your forgiveness.  and, yet your
 love for me is so boundless that you would give yourself to die for me to
 save me.  as terribly evil as i am, i deserve to go straight to hell, yet it
 pleases you somehow to rescue me from this terrible life i've led.  lord,
 please forgive me and help me stay on the right track so that i can bring
 glory to your name instead of insult.  lord i'm so sorry for my wrongs.  please
 help me to change."
 
 : 
 : i think people take exceptional offense to religious arrogance because
 : they don't want to be wrong.  if i find someone arrogant, i typically
 : don't have anything to do with them.
 
 for me, i've often found it hard to tell the difference.  often times, the
 most humble christian has come across to me as arrogant while the most
 proud "worm in the ground" false humility type person has been found to be
 most comfortable company.
 
 when i'm wrong and arrogant about my wrongness, i certainly don't feel like
 being confronted by my wrongness.  were someone to confront me verbally with
 my wrongness, i'd be likely to snap at them and examine them head to toe for
 all their faults and charge them with hypocricy for what they said to me.
 at the root, my desire would be to make them shut up so that i can go about
 living my life arrogantly as i wish.  however, were someone to confront me
 silently by their example, earn my respect, and perhaps mention it to me in
 humility in private, i'd feel broken down and challenged to seek god for help
 in changing from the error of my ways.
 
 the hard part is getting to the point to where i can be humble before anyone
 regardless of their humility or pride--regardless of their hypocricy or
 sincerity--regardless of whether onlookers will frown down upon me or not.
 it isn't easy to take this pain in love with thankfulness for the opportunity
 to improve in one's ability to serve god.  it's easier to cast aside any hope
 of reaching true humility and merely hide behind slandering god's creation
 in our lives instead.
 
 : but we should examine ourselves [i hope i typed this back in right]
 : and why we react to certain situations with such emotions.  for instance,
 : many of us feel "justified" to be insulted by an arrogant person.  as if
 : we needed a reason to feel insulted.  but after being insulted over and
 : over again by the words of others, you'd think we'd either toughen up
 : or decide not to be insulted, or ignore the insult.  just because you
 : can justify feelings of anger or insult or outrage, that doesn't make that
 : reaction the appropriate one.  it is in this light of self-examination
 : that we can change our emotional reactions.
 : 
 
 sometimes it helps when we can understand and feel the difference between
 what is a true statement of our character and what is a false and slanderous
 statement of our character.  the devil is the accuser of the bretheren.  he
 would love us to feel hopelessly guilty where we are innocent and feel arrogant
 and self-righteous where we are indeed wrong.  the devil's aim is to get us
 into as much misery as he can.  just think of the devil as a cruel and merci-
 less criminal who torments a parent by burning his or her children with
 hot irons.  the way the devil gets under the father's skin is by hurting
 those that the father loves so much.
 
 
 --
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 	"i deplore the horrible crime of child murder...
 	 we want prevention, not merely punishment.
 	 we must reach the root of the evil...
 	 it is practiced by those whose inmost souls revolt
 	 from the dreadful deed...
 	 no mater what the motive, love of ease,
 		or a desire to save from suffering the unborn innocent,
 		the woman is awfully guilty who commits the deed...
 	 but oh! thrice guilty is he who drove her
 		to the desperation which impelled her to the crime."
 
 		- susan b. anthony,
 		  the revolution july 8, 1869
 