
 "larry" == larry l. overacker <shellgate!llo@uu4.psi.com> writes:
 
 i, not dave davis, wrote:
 >
 >the deutero-canonical books were added much later in the church's
 >history.  they do not have the same spiritual quality as the rest of
 >scripture.  i do not believe the church that added these books was
 >guided by the spirit in so doing.  and that is where this sort of
 >discussion ultimately ends.
 
 sorry, i put my foot in my mouth, concerning the church's history.
 it is correct to say that the council of hippo 393 listed the 
 deuterocanonical books among those accepted for use in the
 church, and that this was ratified by the council of carthage,
 and by pope innoent i and gelasius i (414 ad).
 
 yet eerdman's history of the church says: 
 
 "at the end of the fourth century views still differed in regard to
 the extent of the canon, or the number of the books which should
 be acknowledged as divine and authoritative.
 
    the jewish canon, or the hebrew bible, was universally 
 received, while the apocrypha added to the greek version
 of the septuagint were only in a general way accounted as books
 suitable for church reading, and thus as a middle class between
 canonical and strictly apocryphal (pseudonymous) writings.
 and justly; for those books, while they have great historical
 value, and fill the gap between the old testament and the new,
 all originated after the cessation of prophecy, and the cannot
 be therefore regarded as inspired, nor are they ever cited
 by christ or the aposteles."
 
 "in the western church the canon of both testaments was closed
 at the end of the fourth century through the authority of
 jerome (who wavered, however, between critical doubts and the
 principle of tradition), and more especially of augustine,
 who firmly followed the alexandrian canon of the septuagint,
 and the preponderant tradition in reference to the catholic
 epistles and the revelation; though he himself, in some
 places, inclines to consider the old testament apocrypha
 as *deutero* canonical, bearing a subordinate authority."
 
 this history goes on to say that augustine attended both the
 council of hippo and of carthage.
 
 it is interesting to note, however, the following footnote to
 the fourth session of the council of trent.  the footnote 
 lists various synods which endorsed lists of canonical 
 books, but then says "the tridentine list or decree was the
 first *infallible* and effectually promulgated declaration
 on the canon of the holy scriptures."
 
 which leads one to think that the rc canon was not official
 until trent.  thus my previous erroneous statement was
 not entirely groundless.
 
 it is also interesting to note that the council of trent
 went on to uphold "the old latin vulgate edition" of 
 the scriptures as authentic.  which, i would suppose, 
 today's catholic scholars wish the council had never said.
 also the council made no distinction between deutero-canonical
 and canonical books--in contrast to (eerdman's statement of) the
 fourth century views.
 
 david wagner
 a confessional lutheran
 