
 i recently came across this article which i found interesting. i have 
 posted it to hear what other people feel about the issue.
 
 i realise it is rather long (12 pages in wordperfect) by may well be worth 
 the read.
 
 except for the first page (which i typed) the rest was scanned inusing 
 omnipage. some of the f's have come out as t's and visa-versa. i have tried 
 to correct as much as possible.
 
 
 about the author
 
 peter hammond is the founder of frontline fellowship, a
 missionary organisation witnessing to the communist countries in
 southern africa. he has also made several visits to many east
 european countries.
 
 frontline fellowship news                          issn 1018-144x
 
 praying for justice
 (by peter hammond)
 
 to those involved in ministering to christians suffering
 persecution the imprecatory psalms are a tremendous source of
 comfort. and those of us who are fighting for the right to life
 of the preborn, or battling social evils such as pornography or
 crime, are beginning to appreciate what an important weapon god
 has entrusted to us in the imprecatory psalms.
 
 
 the imprecatory psalms
 
 early in my christian walk i encountered the prayers for
 judgement in the psalms and was quite at loss to know how to
 respond to them. prayers such as:
 "break the arm of the wicked and evil men; call him to account for
 his wickedness ..." psalm 10:15 did not seem consistent with the
 gospel of love which i had accepted. yet psalm 10:15 was clearly
 motivated by love for god ("the lord is king for ever and ever;
 the nation will perish from his land" 10:16, and "why does the
 wicked man revile god? 10:13), and by love for the innocent who
 suffer ("you hear, o lord, the desire of the afflicted; you
 encourage them, and you listen to their cry, defending the
 fatherless and oppressed, in order that man, who is of the earth,
 may terrify no more." 10:17-18)
 
 nevertheless, i grew increasingly uncomfortable reading such
 graphic prayers for god to judge the wicked as: "pour out your
 wrath on them; let your fierce anger overtake them" 64:24; "o
 lord, the god avenges, o god who avenges, shine forth. rise up, o
 judge of the earth, pay back to the proud what they deserve."
 95:1-2; "break the teeth in their mouths, o god; ...let them
 vanish like water .. let their arrows be blunted ... the
 righteous will be glad when they are avenged, when they bathe
 their feet in the blood of the wicked. then men will way, "surely
 the righteous still are rewarded; surely there is a god who
 judges the earth.'" 58:6-11
 
 certainly i wanted god to be honoured and yes i was deeply
 destressed by the prevalence of evil -  but could i actually pray
 for god to "pour out his wrath" on the wicked?
 
 the scripture make it clear that these prayers are not to be
 prayed for own selfish motives, nor against our personal enemies.
 rather they are to be prayed in christ, for his glory and against
 his enemies. the psalmist describes the targets of these
 imprecation as: those who devise injustice in their heart and
 whose hands mete out violence (58:2) those who "boast of evil"
 and "are a disgrace in the eyes of god. your tongue plots
 destruction, it is like a sharpened razor, and you who practise
 deceit. you love evil rather than good, falsehood rather than
 speaking the truth." 52:1-3; "they crush your people ... they
 slay the widow and the alien; they murder the fatherless." 94:5-
 6; "with cunning they conspire against your people; they plot
 against those you cherish." 83:3; "you hate all who do wrong. you
 destroy those who tell lies; bloodthirsty and deceitful men the
 lord abhors." 5:5-6.
 
 to those unrepentant enemies of god the psalmist declares:
 "surely god will bring you down to everlasting ruin" 52:5;
 "surely god will crush the heads of his enemies ... of those who
 go on in their sins" 68:21.
 
 and the purpose of these prayers for justice is declared: "then
 it will be known to the ends of the earth that god rules ..."
 59:13; "to proclaim the powers of god" 68:34; "all kings will bow
 down to him and all nations will serve him " 72:11; "who knows
 the power of your anger? for your wrath is as great as the fear
 that is due you. " 90:11
 
 yet despite the fact that 90 of the 150 psalms include
 imprecations (prayers invoking god's righteous judgement upon the
 wicked) such prayers are rare in the average western church.
 however, amongst the persecuted churches these prayers are much
 more common.
 
 
 praying against the persecutors
 
 amidst the burnt out churches and devastation of marxist angola i
 found the survivors of communist persecution including the
 crippled and maimed, and widows and orphans praying for god to
 strike down the wicked and remove the persecutors of the church.
 i was shocked - yet it was biblical (even the martyrs in heaven
 pray "how long, sovereign lord, holy and true, until you judge
 the inhabitants of the earth and avenge our blood?" revelation
 6:10).
 
 the initiator of the communist persecution in angola was agestino
 neto. described as a "drunken, psychotic, marxist poet", neto had
 been installed by cuban troops as the first dictator of angola.
 he boasted that: "within 20 years there won't be a bible or a
 church left in angola. i will have eradicated christianity." yet
 despite the vicious wave of church burning and massacres it is
 not christianity that was eradicated in angola but agestino neto.
 neto died in mysterious circumstances on an operating table in
 moscow.
 
 in romania i learnt of a series of remarkable incidents recorded
 of god judging the persecutors of the church in answer to prayer:
   *  a communist official ordered a certain pastor to be
      arrested. the next day the official died of a heart attack.
   *  another communist party official ordered that all the bibles
      in his district were to be collected and pulped, to be
      turned into toilet paper. this blasphemous project was in
      fact carried out. but the next day when the official was
      medically examined, he was informed that he had terminal
      cancer. he died shortly afterwards.
   *  on another occasion, a communist official who had ordered a
      baptist church to be demolished by bulldozers died in a car
      crash the very next day.
   *  when an order was given to dismantle a place of worship on
      the mountainside in a forest, the workmen flatly refused to
      carry out the order. at gunpoint a group of conscripted
      gypsies also refused to touch the church. in desperation,
      the communist police forced prisoners at bayonet-point to
      dismantle the structure. yet the officer in charge pleaded
      with the local christians to pray for him, that god would
      not judge him. he emphasised that he had nothing against
      christians and was only obeying strict orders. the building
      was in fact reconstructed later, and again used for worship.
      "they were all seized with sear and the name of the lord
      jesus was held in high honour... in this way the word of the
      lord spread widely and grew in power. " acts 19:17,20
 
 nicolae ceaucescu the dictator who ordered much of the
 persecution in romania was overthrown by his own army and
 executed on christmas day, 1989, to joyous shouts of "the
 antichrist is dead" in the streets. many testified that this was
 in answer to the fervent prayers of the long suffering people of
 romania.
 
 another persecutor of the church who challenged god was samora
 machel, the first dictator of marxist mozambique. samora machel
 was a cannibal who ate human flesh in witchcraft ceremonies in
 the 1960's. he pledged his soul to satan and vowed that he would
 destroy the church and turn mozambique into the first truly
 marxist-leninist state in africa. thousands of churches in
 mozambique were closed confiscated, "nationalised" chained and
 padlocked, burnt down or boarded up. missionaries were expelled,
 some being imprisoned first. evangelism was forbidden. bibles
 were ceremonially burnt and tens of thousands of christians,
 including many pastors and elders, were shipped off to
 concentration camps - most were never seen again.
 
 a month before his sudden death samora machel cursed god publicly
 and challenged him to prove his existence by striking him
 (machel) dead. on 19 october 1986, while several churches were
 specifically praying for god to stop the persecution in
 mozambique, machel's soviet tupelov aircraft crashed in a violent
 thunderstorm. the plane crashed 200 metres within south africa's
 boundary with mozambique. amidst the wreckage the marxist plans
 for overthrowing the government of malawi were discovered and
 published. not only had god judged a blasphemer and a persecutor,
 but he had also saved a country from persecution.
 
 in the months leading up to the first multi-party elections in
 zambia many churches fasted and prayed tor god to remove the 27
 year socialist dictatorship of kenneth kaunda. this was done on
 31st october 1991 when fredrick chiluba (a man converted to
 christ whilst imprisoned for opposing kaunda) was elected
 president of zambia and covenanted to make zambia a christian
 country.
 
 it is recorded in history that the wicked mary, queen of scots,
 declared trembling and in tears: "i am more afraid of john knox's
 prayers than of an army of ten thousand".
 
 on 3 april 1993 the secretary general of the south african
 communist party chris hani was shot dead. from the unprecedented
 international wave of condolences and adulation reported one
 could be forgiven for assuming that this man was a saint and a
 martyr. certainly it was not the death and resurrection of christ
 jesus which dominated the thoughts and headlines of south africa
 this easter, but the assassination of chris hani.
 
 the stunning hypocrisy of the situation is that 20 135 people
 were murdered in south africa in 1992, yet more collective
 concern and anguish were reported over the death of the head of
 the sa communist party than for all the thousands of other
 victims. indeed the sa government, the international community
 and the mass media have apparently had greater sorrow reported
 over this one death than for all the 50 000 south africans
 murdered since 2nd february 1990 when the anc, sacp and pac were
 unbanned!
 
 yet as a member of the anc revolutionary council since 1973,
 deputy commander of umkhonto we sizwe (mk) the anc's "military
 wing" - from 1982, and chief of staff of mk from 1987, chris hani
 had approved and ordered bombings and assassinations of many
 unarmed civilians. as jesus warned: "all who live by the sword
 will die by the sword " matt 26:52.
 
 after personally confronting hani about his terrorist activities
 at a press conference in washington dc (where he publicly
 declared his support for fidel castro, col. gaddafi, yasser
 arafat and saddam hussein and defended the placing of car bombs
 and limpet mines in public places during "the struggle") i told
 him that i was a christian and, while i didn't hate him, i did
 hate communism and i was praying for him - that god would either
 bring him to repentance and salvation in christ, or that god
 would remove him. he responded by swearing and declaring that he
 was an atheist.
 
 several other people also prayed that god would either bring hani
 to repentance or remove him. similarly several churches in
 america have begun to pray the imprecatory psalms against
 unrepentant abortionists. in one town 8 abortionists were struck
 down, with heart attacks, strokes, car accidents and cancer,
 within months of these public prayers for god to stop these
 killers of preborn babies.
 
 some praised god for his righteous acts of judgement and quoted:
 "when justice is done, it brings joy to the righteous and terror
 to evildoers " proverbs 21:15. others were shocked that any
 christian could express satisfaction at the misfortune of any -
 even of the blatantly wicked. yet the apostles prayed imprecatory
 prayers (acts 13:8-12; galatians 1:8-9; 2 tim 4:14-15) and so did
 our lord (matt 11:20-24).
 
 what then should our attitude towards the imprecatory psalms be?
 should we be praying the psalms? to tackle these thorny issues i
 would like to present a short summary of an excellent book, "war
 psalms of the prince of peace - lessons from the imprecatory
 psalms" by james e adams, (published by the presbyterian and
 reformed publishing company):
 
 our lord jesus christ & his apostles used the psalms constantly
 in teaching men to know god. the new testament (nt) quotes the
 old testament (ot) over 283 times. 41% of all ot quotes in the nt
 are from the psalms. christ himself alluded to the psalms over 50
 times. the psalms are the prayer book of the bible.
 
 
 1. are the imprecatory psalms the oracles of god?
 
 some christian commentators & theologians reject these psalms as
 "devilish", "diabolical ", "unsuited to the church", and "not god
 's pronouncements of his wrath on the wicked; but the prayers of
 a man for vengeance on his enemies, just the opposite of jesus'
 teaching that we should love our enemies. "
 
 yet 2 tim 3:16-17 declares:
 "all scripture is god breathed and is useful for teaching,
 rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, so that the
 man of god may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. "
 (see also 2 peter 3:15-16).
 
 the fact that something in the word of god is beyond our
 comprehension is not grounds to denying or even questioning its
 inspiration. to make ourselves the judge of what is good or evil
 is to impudently take the place of god.
 
 do we imagine ourselves to be holier than god? wrong ideas of god
 have led many to become "evangelic plastic surgeons who have made
 it their job to "clean up" god's word according to their own
 ideas of what is proper. they have forgotten that it is god alone
 who must determine what christianity is and what is suitable for
 his church. the essence of what many have done is to question the
 authority of god's word (like eve's original sin of listening to
 satan's question "yes, hath god said... ?").
 
 the psalms are part of god's revelation of himself and his
 attributes, and they are reaffirmed by the nt as the
 authoritative word of god. those imprecatory psalms which these
 evangelical plastic surgeons reject as "unsuited" and "unworthy"
 for the church are the very psalms christ used to testify about
 himself (eg: mark 12:36; matt 22:43-44) and which the apostles
 used as authoritative scripture (eg: acts 1:16-20; acts 4:25; heb
 4:7). see also: 2 samuel 23:1-2.
 
 ch spurgeon said concerning the imprecatory psalms, (especially
 ps 109):
 "truly this is one of the hard places of scripture, a passage
 which the soul trembles to read, yet it is not ours to sit in
 judgement upon it, but to bow our ear to what the lord would
 speak to us therein. "
 
 the rejection of any part of god's word is a rejection of the
 giver of that word, god himself.
 
 
 2. who is praying these psalms?
 
 christ quoted the psalms not merely as prophesy; he actually
 spoke the psalms as his own words. the psalms occupied an
 enormous place in the life of our lord. he used it as his prayer
 book and song book - from the synagogue to the festivals and at
 the last supper.
 
 on the cross christ quoted from the psalms - not as some ancient
 authority that he adapted for his own use, but as his very own
 words - the words of the lord's anointed - which as david's son
 he truly was.
 "father, into your hands i commit my spirit" ps 31:5
 "my god, my god, why have you forsaken me?" ps 22:1
 
 in his ministry christ foretells what he will say as the judge on
 the day of judgement, and he quotes the psalms in doing so!
 matt 7:23 "then i will tell them plainly, 'i never knew you. away
 from me, you evildoers'. " ps 6:8
 
 in heb 10:5 the apostle attributes ps 40:6-8 directly to christ
 although nowhere in the gospels is christ recorded as having said
 these words. similarly hebrews 2 : 12 attributes ps 22:22
 directly to christ despite there being no record of his having
 spoken these words while on earth. clearly the apostles believed
 christ is speaking in the psalms.
 
 christ came to establish his kingdom and to extend his mercy in
 all the earth. but let us never forget that jesus will come again
 to execute judgement on the wicked.
 david as the anointed king of the chosen people of god was a
 prototype of jesus christ. acts 2:30:
 "being therefore a prophet, ... he foresaw and spoke of the
 resurrection of christ. "
 david was a witness to christ in his office, in his lite, and in
 his words. the same words which david spoke, the future messiah
 spoke through him. the prayers of david were prayed also by
 christ. or better christ himself prayed these psalms through his
 forerunner david.
 
 the imprecatory psalms are expressions of the infinite justice of
 god, of his indignation against wrong doing, and his compassion
 for the wronged.
 
 
 3. but what about the psalms of repentance?
 
 christ is also the lamb of god, the substitutionary sacrifice for
 our sins. christ in the day of his crucifixion was charged with
 the sin of his people. he appropriated to himself those debts for
 which he had made himself responsible. our lord was the
 substitution for the sinner. he took the sinners place (isaiah
 53).
 
 "god made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we
 might become the righteousness of god. " 2 cor 5:21
 
 in history the psalms, especially the imprecatory psalms, have
 been understood to have been the prayers of christ by: st
 augustine, jerome, ambrose, tertullian, luther and many others.
 all the psalms are the voice of christ. christ is praying the
 imprecatory psalms! all the psalms are messianic. it is the lord
 jesus christ who is praying these prayers of vengeance. it is
 only right for the righteous king of peace to ask god to destroy
 his enemies.
 
 these prayers signal an alarm to all who are still enemies of
 king jesus. his prayers will be answered! god's word is revealed
 upon all who oppose christ. anyone who rejects god's way of
 forgiveness in the cross of christ will bear the dreadful curses
 of god.
 
 he who prays psalm 69:23-28 will one day make this prayer a
 reality when he declares to those on his left:
 "depart from me you who are cursed into the eternal fire prepared
 for the devil and his angels. " matt 25:41
 
 all the enemies of the lord need to hear these psalms. *god's
 kingdom is at war.* the powers of evil will tall and god alone
 will reign forever!
 "with justice he judges and makes war...out of his mouth comes a
 sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. he will rule
 them with an iron sceptre; he treads the winepress of the fury of
 the wrath of god almighty...king of kings and lord of lords. "
 rev 19 : 15
 
 
 4. are jesus' prayers contradictory?
 
 what about jesus' command to love our enemies and to bless those
 who curse us (matt 5:44)?
 
 christ is of course the loving and merciful saviour who forgives
 sin; but he is also the awesome judge who is coming in judgement
 on those who disobey his gospel.
 
 "god is just. he will pay back trouble to those who trouble you
 and give relief to you who are troubled...this will happen when
 the lord jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his
 powerful angels. he will punish those who do not obey the gospel
 of our lord jesus. they will be punished with everlasting
 destruction and shut out from the presence of the lord and from
 the majesty of his power on the day he comes to be glorified in
 his holy people and to be marvelled at among au those who have
 believed. " 2 thess 1:6-10
 
 jesus has power on earth to forgive sins, and he has power on
 earth to execute judgement upon his enemies. in the psalms we see
 both the vengeance and the love ot god.
 
 even in the n.t. & in the gospels we see imprecations.
 "woe to you,...hypocrites...blind guides...blind fools...full of
 greed and self indulgence...whitewashed tombs...you snakes! you
 brood of vipers! how will you escape being condemned to hell ? "
 matt 23
 
 in matt 26:23-24 christ quotes from ps 69 and 109 to refer to his
 betrayal by judas.
 
 we also need to acknowledge that christ's prayers of blessing are
 not for all. in john 17:6-9 it is clear that christ is only
 praying to the elect of god - those who have:
 "obeyed your word"... "accepted" god's word ... and have
 "believed ". (see luke 10:8-16 - those who reject the
 message of god's kingdom will be judged.)
 
 
 5. may we pray the imprecatory psalms?
 
 martin luther pointed out that when one prays: "hallowed be thy
 name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done " then "he must put all
 the opposition to this in one pile and say: 'curses, maledictions
 and disgrace upon every other name and every other kingdom. may
 they be ruined and torn apart and may all their schemes and
 wisdom and plans run aground' . "
 
 to pray tor the extension of god's kingdom is to solicit the
 destruction of all other kingdoms, eg: dan 2:44: "the god of
 heaven will set up a kingdom that will never be destroyed ... it
 will crush all those kingdoms and bring them to an end, but it
 will itself endure forever. "
 
 * advance and victory for the church means defeat and retreat for
 the kingdom of darkness. *
 
 there is a life & death struggle between two kingdoms. the church
 cannot exclude hatred tor satan's kingdom from its love for god's
 kingdom. god's kingdom cannot come without satan's kingdom being
 destroyed. god's will cannot be done on earth without the
 destruction of evil. the glory of god demands the destruction of
 evil. instead of being influenced by a sickly sentimentalism
 which insists upon the assumed, but really non-existent, rights
 of man - we should focus instead upon the rights of god.
 
 note psalm 83 where the psalmist prays against those who "plot
 together" against god and his people:
 "cover their faces with shame so that men will seek your name o
 lord... do to them as you did to midian, as you did to sisera and
 jabin at the river kishon, who perished at endor and became like
 refuse on the ground. "
 
 the story of sisera in the book of judges (chapter 4 and 5)
 provides a vivid example of god's judgement on the wicked. sisera
 "cruelly oppressed the israelites for twenty years" and they
 "cried to the lord for help" judges 4:3. in response to those
 prayers: "the lord routed sisera and all his chariots and army by
 the sword, and sisera abandoned his chariot and fled on foot...
 all the troops of sisera fell by the sword; not a man was left. "
 judges 4:15-16
 
 the account then goes on to describe how sisera escaped to the
 tent of jael where she lulled him into a false sense of safety
 and then drove a tent peg through his temple with a hammer. the
 song of victory by deborah and barak celebrated the crushing of
 the head of sisera in graphic detail (judges 5:25-27). and it is
 this that psalm 83 implores god to again do to his enemies.. "as
 you did to sisera ..."
 
 
 6. the blessings of obedience and the curse of disobedience
 
 the imprecatory psalms are fully consistent with the law of god:
      "if you do not carefully follow all the words of this law,
      which are written in this book, and do not revere this
      glorious and awesome name - the lord your god - the lord
      will send fearful plagues on you and your descendants. he
      will bring upon you all the diseases of egypt that you
      dreaded, and they will cling to you. the lord will also
      bring on you every kind of sickness and disaster not
      recorded in this book of the law until you are
      destroyed...because you did not obey the lord your god ...
      so it will please him to ruin and destroy you. you will be
      uprooted from the land you are entering to possess. "
      deuteronomy 28:58-63
 
 the covenant god made with his people included curses for
 disobedience as well as blessings for obedience. deuteronomy 27
 records the formal giving and receiving of the covenant terms in
 an awesome account:
 "the levites shall recite to all the people of israel in a loud
 voice:
 "cursed is the man who carves an image or casts an idol - a thing
 detestable to the lord, the work of the craftsman's hands - and
 sets it up in secret. "
 then all the people shall say, "amen!" "
 "cursed is the man who dishonours his father or his mother...
 "cursed is the man who moves his neighbour's boundary stone...
 "cursed is the man who leads the blind astray on the roads...
 "cursed is the man who withholds justice from the alien, the
 fatherless or the widow...
 "cursed is the man who kills his neighbour secretly...
 "cursed is the man who accepts a bribe to kill an innocent
 person.
 "cursed is the man who does not uphold the words of the law by
 carrying them out.
 then all the people shall say, "amen!" " deut 27:14-26
 
 the new testament confirms that the inevitable consequence of
 rejecting christ is the curse. "if anyone does not love the
 lord - a curse be on him. " 1 corinthians 16:22
 
 (see also: romans 12:19-21; hebrews 1:1-3; 3:7-12; 3:1519; 10:26-
 31; 12:14-29.)
 
 
 7. how can we preach these prayers?
 
 the church of jesus christ is an army under orders.
 scripture constitutes the official dispatch from the commander-
 in-chief. but we have a problem: those who are called to pass on
 those orders to others are refusing to do so. how then can we
 expect to be a united, effective army? is it any wonder that the
 troops have lost sight of their commission to demolish the
 strongholds of the kingdom of darkness? if the church does not
 hear the battle cries of her captain, how will she follow him
 onto the battlefield?
 
 pastors are commissioned to pass on the orders of the church's
 commander, never withholding or changing his words. one whose job
 is to carry dispatches to troops in wartime would face certain
 and severe punishment if he dared to amend the general's orders.
 the pastor's charge is of greater importance than that of a
 courier in any earthly army. there's no place tor the dispatcher
 to decide he doesn't agree with his commander's strategy.
 
 when jesus christ sent seventy-two disciples on a preaching
 mission, he told them to proclaim the coming of god's kingdom (lk
 10:9) - that is, to announce that people must submit to god's
 rule in their lives. jesus instructed them to pray for peace on
 any house they approach, assuring them that if anyone rejected
 it, the peace would return on the disciples (verse 5). but we
 must consider what he said they should do if their message were
 rejected - that is, if the hearers persisted in rebellion against
 god's rule - "but when you enter a town and are not welcomed, go
 into its 'streets and say, 'even the dust of your town that
 sticks to our feet we wipe off against you. yet be sure of this:
 the kingdom of god is near"' luke 10:11.
 
 what would be the result of that denunciation? i tell you, it
 will be more bearable on that day for sodom [on which god sent
 fire from heaven in judgement for its wickedness] than for that
 town (verse 12). immediately jesus added curses on korazin,
 bethsaida, and capernaum tor their rejection of his message
 (verses 13-15). he then explained to the disciples the great
 authority he had given them: "he who listens to you listens to
 me; he who rejects you rejects me; but he who rejects me rejects
 him who sent me " (verse 16). this is the fundamental basis tor
 calling down god's curses on anyone: his persistent rebellion
 against god's authority expressed in his law and the ministry of
 his servants.
 
 we need to clearly and forcefully proclaim the war cries of the
 prince of peace. only then will the church awake from its
 lethargy and once again enter the battle. if we tail to pass on
 the battle cry then a lack of urgency and confusion in the ranks
 will be inevitable.
 
 like psalm 1 our preaching needs to clearly show the blessings of
 obedience and the curse of disobedience. the eternal truth is
 that god cannot be mocked. whatever a man sows - that shall he
 reap (galatians 6:7). the curses pronounced on disobedience in
 deut 28:47-53 were fulfilled in detail in samaria (2 kings
 6:2&29) and in judea (ad 70). the wrath of god upon covenant
 breakers is real.
 
 the "i" of the psalms is jesus christ. the "we" of the psalms
 includes those of us in the lord jesus. the enemies are not our
 own, individually, but those of the lord and of his church. the
 psalms are ot christ as prophet, priest, and king. they record
 christ's march in victory against the kingdom of darkness. as
 christ is the author of the psalms, so, too, is he the final
 fulfilment of the covenant on which they are based. god will
 answer the psalmist's prayers completely in jesus christ on the
 final day of judgment. while on earth jesus foretold the day when
 he will say: "but those enemies of mine who did not want me to be
 king over them - bring them here and kill them in front of me"
 luke 19:27.
 
 a fatal end awaits everyone who refuses to acknowledge and to
 obey jesus as king and lord. hearing expositions of these war
 psalms of the prince of peace will remind his people that god's
 kingdom is at war! the kingdom of darkness is being overcome by
 the kingdom of jesus christ, a war in which each local
 congregation of believers plays a vital part. you must rally your
 battalion to put on the whole armour of god, including "the sword
 of the spirit, which is the word of god " eph 6:17. that battle-
 readiness also involves "pray(ing) in the spirit on all occasions
 with all kinds of prayers and requests n eph 6:18.
 
 christ teaches his army to pray for the utter destruction of the
 enemies of god as the psalmist did: "pour out your wrath on the
 nations that do not acknowledge you, on the kingdoms that do not
 call on your name" ps 79:6.
 
 to deal with the very real hurts and injustices in this world it
 is necessary for us to pray for god's justice. those who are
 persecuted need the comfort of these prayers.
 
 "let the saints rejoice in his honour and sing for joy...may the
 praise of god be in their mouths and a double-edged sword in
 their hands, to inflict vengeance on the nations and punishment
 on the peoples, to bind their kings with fetters, their nobles
 with shackles of iron, to carry out the sentences written against
 them. this is the glory of all his saints. praise the lord. " ps
 149:5-9
 
 prayer is, in fact, spiritual warfare. one weapon is prayer for
 conversion of spiritual enemies; another is prayer for judgement
 on those who finally refuse to be converted. we handicap the army
 of god when we refuse to use both of these great weapons that he
 has given us. it is at all times a part of the task of the people
 nf god to destroy evil.
 
 if you have been guilty of dulling your sword, by neglecting or
 undermining these psalms, repent of that sin, sharpen your sword
 anew, and go forth to do battle in the name and for the glory of
 jesus - until "the knowledge of the lord will cover the earth as
 the waters cover the sea" hab 2:14.
 
 the full book "war psalms of the prince of peace " is available,
 at r25, from frontline fellowship, po box 74 newlands, 7725 rsa.
 
 
 permission to reproduce
 those wishing to reproduce or quote from any edition of ff news
 are encouraged to do so. we only request that due acknowledgement
 of the source be mentioned and that a copy be sent to us.
 