
 "aaron" == aaron bryce cardenas <aaronc@athena.mit.edu> writes:
 
 aaron> colossians 2:11-12 "in him you were also circumcised, in the
 aaron> putting off of the sinful nature, not with a circumcision done
 aaron> by christ, having been buried with him in baptism and raised
 aaron> with him through your faith in the power of god, who raised him
 aaron> from the dead."
 
 aaron> in baptism, we are raised to a new life in christ (romans 6:4)
 aaron> through a personal faith in the power of god.  our parent's
 aaron> faith cannot do this.  do infants have faith?  let's look at
 aaron> what the bible has to say about it.
 
 yes, let do.  try: 
 
 "and if anyone causes one of these little ones *who believes in me*
 to sin, it would be better for him to be thrown into the sea
 with a large millstone tied around his neck."  mark 9:42
 
 "let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them,
 for the kingdom of god belongs to such as these.  i tell you
 the truth, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of god
 like a little child will never enter it."
 
 the colossians passage does not make faith a requirement
 for baptism.  it merely says that in baptism we are born again,
 regenerated, and resurrected through faith.  in the case
 of an infant i would say that baptism works faith in the
 heart of the infant--through the power of the word.
 
 the colossians passage does make baptism a spiritual circumcision.
 circumcision was the means by which a male infant was made
 a part of god's covenant with israel.  it was commanded to be
 performed on the eighth day.  the early church understood this,
 and even debated whether baptism had to be performed on the
 eighth day, or if it could in fact be done earlier.
 
 aaron> romans 10:16-17 "but not all the israelites accepted the good
 aaron> news.  for isaiah says, 'lord, who has believed our message?'
 aaron> consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the
 aaron> message is heard through the word of christ."
 
 aaron> so then we receive god's gift of faith to us as we hear the
 aaron> message of the gospel.  
 
 and the gospel is surely preached at any infant's (or adult's)
 baptism.  indeed, in a very real sense, the sacraments are
 the gospel made tangible.
 
 aaron> faith is a possible response to hearing
 aaron> god's word preached.  kids are not yet spiritually,
 aaron> intellectually, or emotionally mature enough to respond to
 aaron> god's word.  
 
 how do you know they are not yet mature enough to have faith?
 do you know this on the basis of god's word, or from your own
 reason?
 
 faith is also described as a gift from god, ephesians 2:8,9. 
 he gives faith to infants just as he gives it to adults, through
 the power of the gospel, romans 1:6.
 
 aaron> if you read all of ezekiel 18, you will see that god doesn't
 aaron> hold us guilty for anyone else's sins.  so we can have no
 aaron> original guilt from adam.
 
 here you show that you just don't understand original sin--
 you are arguing against a straw man.
 maybe you've been talking to catholics too much.  i don't
 know.  but original sin does not consist of god's imputation
 of adam's guilt to us.  it consists of our inheritance of
 adam's sinful nature.  it is actual sin.  see for example,
 the augsburg confession, article ii, and the apology of the
 augsburg confession, article ii, and, for extra credit,
 john knox's `the scots confession', article iii.
 
 aaron> now then that we have a little more background as to why
 aaron> original sin is not biblical, let's look at some of the
 aaron> scriptures used to support it.
 
 aaron> romans 5:12 "therefore, just as sin entered the world through
 aaron> one man, and death through sin, and in this way death came to
 aaron> all men, because all sinned--"
 
 
 ask yourself this question.  "do infants ever die?"  then ask
 yourself, "if infant baptism is not valid, then where was the
 christian church during all the centuries when almost all 
 of the baptisms were performed on infants?  were luther, melancthon,
 calvin, zwingli, hus, knox, andrae, and chemnitz christians?
 
 
 aaron> psalm 51:5 "surely i was sinful at birth, sinful from the time
 aaron> my mother conceived me."
 
 aaron> this whole psalm is a wonderful example of how we should humble
 aaron> ourselves before god in repentance for sinning.  david himself
 aaron> was a man after god's own heart and wrote the psalm after
 aaron> committing adultry with bathsheba and murdering her husband.
 aaron> all that david is saying here is that he can't remember a time
 aaron> when he wasn't sinful.  he is humbling himself before god by
 aaron> confessing his sinfulness.  his saying that he was sinful at
 aaron> birth is a hyperbole.  the bible, being inspired by god, isn't
 aaron> limited to a literal interpetation, but also uses figures of
 aaron> speech as did jesus (john 16:25).  for another example of
 aaron> hyperbole, see luke 14:26.
 
 who are you to say what is literal and what is not?  is a literal
 interpretation manifestly absurd in psalm 51 by reason of direct
 contradiction with a clear passage from the word of god?
 
 you might also compare genesis 8:21, "the lord smelled the
 pleasing aroma and said in his heart, `never again will i curse
 the ground because of man, even though every inclination of
 his heart is evil from childhood...."
 
 aaron> we see
 aaron> that he did grow and become wiser in luke 2:40 and 2:52.  the
 aaron> implication is that jesus did wrong things as a child before he
 aaron> knew to choose right over wrong.
 
 you are a long way from proving this (rather monstrous) assertion.
 all you can say is that jesus grew in wisdom and in stature.  a
 conclusion that he did wrong as a child is based on an extrapolation
 of reason, not on a direct revelation in scripture.
 
 david h. wagner			"but mad reason rushes forth and,
 a confessional lutheran		because baptism is not dazzling like
 				the works which we do,
 				regards it as worthless."
 				--martin luther, large catechism,
 				--fourth part, baptism.
 