
 in article <may.11.02.37.40.1993.28185@athos.rutgers.edu> dt4%cs@hub.ucsb.edu (david e. goggin) writes:
 >
 >i'd like to get your comments on a question that has been on my mind a
 >lot:  what morals/ethics apply to dreams and out-of-body incidents?
 
 dave - you might like to read a book by florence bulle "god
 wants you rich & other enticing doctrines", which discusses
 oobes in one of her chapters.
 
 in the bible we have examples of men caught up in the spirit (eg
 ezekiel, paul). i believe that also this experience is
 counterfeited by satan - so that for example yoga and other
 eastern medatitive techniques can be used to induce the soul to
 leave the body and float off. someone tried to sell me a book in
 los angeles airport entitled "easy journeys to other planets"
 which uses such techniques.
 
 the occultic trance of a medium sometimes involves such body
 departure - the book "the challanging counterfeit", about a
 former medium who gets saved, tells how the author, on his last
 trance, was attacked by evil spirits who tried to kill him
 while returning to his body at the end of the seance
 because of his interest in christianity and how he was supernaturally
 protected by the lord.
 
 there may be some similarities in mind-altering drugs and the
 phenomena of 'tripping'.
 
 as regards the connection between body and soul, there is an
 interesting verse in ecclesiastes. in a passage talking about
 old age, the preacher writes "then man goes to his eternal home
 and mourners go about the streets. remember him--before the
 silver cord is severed." (12.5-6) my understanding of this
 silver cord is that it is something that attaches body and soul
 in a manner somewhat similar to an umbilical cord or an
 astronaut's air-line to his spaceship.
 when a person goes out of body this silver cord still attaches
 the soul whereever it goes - and is vulnerable to being broken:
 astral projection can be dangerous! bulle, i think, reports a
 case of a yogi off on an oobe who was found dead in his
 apartment, with no apparent external cause.
 
 barney resson
 "many shall run to and fro, & knowledge shall increase" (daniel)
 