
 
    enclosed is an advertisement for the defending the faith iv
 conference to be held at franciscan university of steubenville (ohio)
 june 25-27.  i attended dtf iii last year, and plan to go again this
 year.  i would recommend it highly to catholic interested in
 apologetics.  there will be lots of music, well-known catholic speakers,
 fellowship, as well as eucharistic liturgies friday and sunday.
 
    registration is $85 per person, but i believe financial aid is
 available if you need it.  housing in residence halls (each of which has
 its own blessed sacrament chapel), if desired, is $30/person for double
 occupancy for two nights ($30 total). reservations can also be made for
 you at the very nearby holiday inn.  i think it was $47 a night there
 for my single room.  meals are available at the cafeteria (friday dinner
 through sunday lunch) for $38 or $32, with or without breakfast,
 respectively.
 
    franciscan university of steubenville is located in eastern ohio on
 us route 22, 1/2 mile west of the ohio river and ohio route 7.  greater
 pittsburgh international airport is less than one hour (35 miles) from
 campus.
 
    feel free to e-mail me if you have any question i can answer.
 
    here is the agenda, as typed in by a friend of mine:
 
 friday afternoon special:
 
 reflections on c.s. lewis, a preliminary session with walter hooper.
 walter hooper is one of the foremost international experts on the
 writings of c.s. lewis.  in 1963, he served as secretary to c.s. lewis,
 and he has since edited 18 of lewis' literary works for publication.
 walter was ordained a priest in the church of england in 1965, serving
 in oxford, england, until he entered the catholic church in 1988.
 
 ----------------
 friday evening, opening session:
 in search of the truth: finding the fullness of faith
 bishop fabian bruskewitz.
 
 know your rites
 kimberly hahn.
 -------------------
 saturday morning
 apologetics means never having to say you're sorry
 karl keating
 
 c.s. lewis: my signpost to the catholic church
 walter hooper
 
 mass
 bishop bruskewitz, celebrant
 fr. ray ryland, homilist
 
 ---------------------------
 saturday afternoon:
 
 the mystery of femininity: why it excludes the priesthood
 dr. alice von hildebrand
 
 men make better fathers: masculinity and the male priesthood
 dr. peter kreeft
 
 ----------------------------
 saturday evening:
 
 when do catholics hear the gospel?
 dr. thomas howard
 
 the catholic gospel: not just saving sinners
 scott hahn
 
 -----------------------------
 sunday morning:
 
 there's no place like rome: the pilgrimage of two protestant pastors
 panel.
 
 mass
 fr. ray ryland, celebrant
 fr. michael scanlan, tor, homilist
 
 
 -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
 
    here is the ad that appeared in _the catholic answer_:
 
                 defending the faith iv conference
 
                     catholic church teaching:
 
               know why you believe  june 25-27, 1993
 
    times have changed.  major catholic doctrines are misunderstood and
 attacked.  like never before, believers need to know the reasons behind
 the catholic church's teaching.  as our first pope urged: "always be
 ready to give a defense for the hope that is within you" (i peter 3:15).
 
    grab your notebooks and get ready for an unforgettable spiritual and
 intellectual weekend.  this year's conference will candidly confront the
 hardest questions and objections about the catholic faith.  deepen your
 understanding of church teaching with _scott_ and _kimberly hahn, dr.
 thomas howard, karl keating, dr. alice von hildebrand, dr. peter
 kreeft,_ and _fr. ray ryland_.
 
    cut throught the confusion and doubt, and be better equipped to give
 a defense for the hope that is within you.
 
    join us at _defending the faith iv_, the fourth in a series of annual
 conferences designed to strengthen the life of catholics and others
 interested in the catholic faith.  it can help _you_ know why you
 believe.
 
 
 call toll free today:				franciscan university
 800/437-tent					   of steubenville
 or 614/283-6314				   steubenville, ohio 43952-6701
 
 -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
 steve creps, indiana university
 creps@lateran.ucs.indiana.edu
 