
 in article <may.12.04.26.55.1993.9901@athos.rutgers.edu>, dozier@utkux1.utk.edu (anni dozier) writes:
 |> after reading the posts on this newsgroup for the pasts 4 months, it 
 |> has become apparent to me that this group is primarily active with 
 |> liberals, catholics, new agers', and athiests.  someone might think 
 |> to change the name to:  soc.religion.any   - or -  perhaps even
 |> soc.religion.new.  it might seem to be more appropriate.
 |> heck, don't flame me, i'm catholic, gay, and i voted 
 |> for bill clinton.  i'm on your side!                      
 
 my sentiments exactly... which is why i'm unsubbing from this group.
 this is the 3rd 'christian' discussion list i have ever belonged to
 and once again i'm being chased away by the strife, anger, discontent,
 lies, et al .
 
 as paul (saul) said, 'i come to preach christ, and him crucified'
 don't let the simple beauty of faith in god get overshadowed by heady
 theological discussions or thousands of lines of post-incarnation
 trappings of some church.
 
 
 as for the atheists/agnostics who read this list: if you aren't
 christian and if you have no intention of ever becoming one why on
 earth do you waste your time and mine by participating on a christian
 discussion list ?
 
 i will continue to search for christian discussion (prayerful, spirit-filled,
 kind, humble, patient, etc.) in other circles.  
 
 -- 
   sheila patterson, cit cr-technical support group
   315 ccc - cornell university
   ithaca, ny  14853
   (607) 255-5388
 
 
 [i'm afraid that any discussion group containing people with different
 views tends to turn into arguments about the largest differences
 present.  so talk.religion.misc spends a lot of time on
 christian/atheist arguments, soc.religion.christian spends a lot of
 time on arguments among different christian groups, and the bitnet
 catholic group spends a lot of time on arguments between conservative
 and liberal catholics.  personally i would prefer to have a set of
 somewhat more specialized groups, at least as an alternative.  liberal
 and conservative protestant and catholic would handle most of the
 traffic, though there are certainly significant groups (e.g.
 orthodox).  of course it may be that most of our readers like the
 arguments.  i certainly find it painful moderating them.  --clh]
 