
 in the course of discussing the sabbath with some folks, 
 i came across something that was completely new to me, 
 and i thought i'd offer it for comment.
 
 to keep this as brief as possible, let me state my 
 observation as a declarative statement, and then whoever 
 wants to can comment on it.  basically, what i think 
 i've observed is that the phrase "the ten commandments", 
 as used by moses, is not a reference to ex. 20:1-17, but 
 rather a reference to ten distinct discourses from ex. 
 20:1 through ex. 31:18.  that is, the phrase "the ten 
 commandments" should more accurately be translated "the 
 ten discourses", of which the passage we call the "ten 
 commandments" is really only the first.
 
 i'm not completely convinced that the above is true, but 
 for purposes of discussion, let me argue it as though i 
 was sure.
 
 arguments supporting the above idea:
 
 1)  there aren't really ten commandments in ex. 20:1-17.  
 in order to get 10 commandments, you have to get two of 
 them out of verses 3-6, and the verses themselves do not 
 support such a division because they are all about not 
 worshipping other gods.  that is, verse 3 commands to 
 have no other gods, and verse 5 commands to not worship 
 the idols mentioned in verse 4.  you can't violate 
 verses 5-6 without violating verse 3, indicating that 
 the whole passage is one command, and leaving us with 
 only nine "commandments".  i could go on at length about 
 this, but for now i'll just stop with this summary.
 
 2)  there are ten speeches between ex 20:1 (the beginning
 of the traditional "ten commandments") and ex 31:18 
 (where god actually gives moses the two tablets with the 
 ten commandments/discourses written on them).  i break 
 these ten down as follows: 20:1-17; 20:22-26; 21:1-23:33; 
 25:1-30:10; 30:11-16; 30:17-21; 30:22-33; 30:34-38; 
 31:1-11; and 31:12-18.  in most cases, each of these 
 passages begins with some variation of the phrase, "and 
 the lord spoke to moses, saying..."  the exception is 
 ex. 21:1, which begins "now these are the ordinances 
 which you are to set before them..."
 
 3)  the word translated "commandments" in the phrase 
 "the ten commandments" isn't really the word for 
 "commandment", its the word for a speech, or an 
 utterance.  it's a word often used for longer discourses 
 rather than individual statements; for instance, when 
 combined with the word 'yom' (day), this word is 
 translated "chronicles" in such phrases as "now the rest 
 of the acts of so-and-so, are they not written in the 
 chronicles of x?..."  the word for "commandment" is 
 freely used throughout the books of moses, and perhaps 
 it is significant that when moses spoke of the ten x's, 
 he appears to have avoided the word for commandment and 
 chosen instead a word associated with discourses longer 
 than just a single command.
 
 4)  god tells moses that he is going to give him the 
 stone tablets "with the law and the commandments" (ex 
 24:12), yet he does not give moses the tablets until he 
 has finished all ten discourses on mount sinai.  if the 
 ten commandments were only ex. 20:1-17, it is not 
 immediately clear why god would wait several days and 
 nine more discourses before giving these tablets to 
 moses.  on the other hand, if we have the ten discourses 
 written on the tablets, then it makes perfect sense that 
 god would not give moses the tablets until he had 
 finished delivering all ten discourses.
 
 5)  when moses did get the tablets, he found that both 
 tablets were written on both sides (ex. 32:15).  if 
 these ten "commandments" were only the first 17 verses 
 of ex. 20, god would have had to have written in large 
 letters!  not that he couldn't have, of course, but it 
 does seem more likely to me that this is a reference to 
 two tablets containing ten discourses written in normal-
 sized letters.
 
 6)  in ii cor. 3, paul seems to specifically single out 
 the "commandments written on stone" as being the 
 "ministry of death", "that which is fading away," and 
 "the ministry of condemnation."  with the possible 
 exception of the commandment about the sabbath, it is 
 difficult to see why paul would refer to the commands in 
 ex. 20:1-17 as being temporary, "fading away"-type 
 commandments.  this is less of a problem if the stone 
 tablets should happen to have included all of the 
 commandments from ex 20 through ex 31.
 
 arguments against this idea:
 
 the main argument against this idea, aside from the fact 
 that it contradicts a long-standing tradition, is that 
 in dt 5:22, moses says, after quoting the commands in 
 ex. 20:1-17, "these words the lord spoke...and he added 
 no more.  and he wrote them on two tablets of stone and 
 gave them to me."  this appears to identify the words 
 just quoted as being the only contents of the two stone 
 tablets.
 
 that was my first impression, anyway.  however, after 
 some thought, i noted that a great deal hinges on how 
 you understand the phrase "these words."  if moses meant 
 "these words *which i have just related to you* were 
 spoken by god" etc., then that would mean that only the 
 traditional "ten commandments" were on the stone 
 tablets.  if, however, moses was making a parenthetical 
 comment--"these words *which i am now telling you* were 
 spoken by god" etc.--then that's quite different.
 
 i did note that in the dt 5 account, moses tells of 
 being given the stone tablets before telling of the 
 people asking moses to represent them before god, 
 whereas in the exodus account, the people asked this of 
 moses between the first and second discourses, several 
 days before god gave moses the stone tablets.  this 
 reinforces the idea that moses' remarks in dt 5:22ff 
 were intended as a parenthetical remark, rather than a 
 strictly chronological account of when god wrote what, 
 and at what point he stopped adding to what was on the 
 tablets.
 
 summary:  all things considered, i find it somewhat more 
 likely that the nine commands in ex 20 are really only 
 the first of what moses regarded as the ten discourses 
 of god.  i don't know if anybody has ever espoused this 
 idea before; it's brand-new to me.  so, while i lean 
 towards accepting it, i would be very interested in 
 hearing any comments and criticisms anyone may care to 
 offer.
 
 - mark
 