
 (marty helgesen) writes:
 
    when an alleged private revelation attracts sufficient attention,
    the church may investigate it.  if the investigation indicates a
    likelihood that the alleged private revelation is in fact from god,
    it will be approved.  that means that it can be preached in the
    church.  however, it is still true that no one is required to
    believe that it came from god.  a catholic is free to deny the
    authenticity of even the most well attested and strongly approved
    private revelations, such as those at fatima and lourdes.  (i
    suspect that few if any catholics do reject fatima and lourdes, but
    if any do their rejection of them does not mean they are not
    orthodox catholics in good standing.)
 
 it may be a bit much to say that a catholic is free to deny what
 happened at fatima.  that's a bit strong, it is sort of like saying
 that a catholic is free to deny that hong kong exists.  what a
 catholic *is* free to do is to deny the truth of fatima, without being
 called a heretic.  you can be labeled other things for such an
 offense, but not a heretic.
 
 theologians make a basic distinction as far as the degree of assent
 one must give to events like fatima and lourdes.  things revealed by
 god through jesus christ or his apostles must be given the assent due
 to a revelation of god: total and unswerving.  fatima and lourdes
 demand our assent as much as any other well-attested event in human
 history.  perhaps a bit more, given the approval of the church.
 
 "approval" of an apparition by the church principally means that
 whatever happened was in harmony with the catholic faith.
 
 i personally think of private revelations as our lord's way of telling
 us what to do at particular periods in history.  he gave us all the
 doctrines, etc., 2000 years ago, but we can always use some help in
 knowing how exactly to apply what he gave us.
 
 catholic devotion to the sacred heart was a result of a series of
 apparitions to st. margaret mary alacoque, for example.  the problem
 at the time was extreme moral rigorism that was turning our lord into
 someone without a heart.
 
 the fatima apparitions were a warning of an impending crisis in the
 church (we are living it), and what to do to save the most souls
 possible in such a situation.
 