
 
                        "christianity in crisis"
                                     by: hank hanegraaff
 
 
 
          "controversy for the sake of controversy is a sin.
             controversy for the sake of truth is a divine command."
                                        -dr. walter martin
 
 
 dr. walter martin personally selected hank hanegraaff to succeed him
 as president of the christian research institute -- the largest 
 evangelical counter-cult organization in the world. in this skillful, 
 careful treatment of an explosive subject, hanegraaff documents and 
 examines how the beliefs of the word of faith movement clearly 
 compromises and confuse the essentials of the historic christian 
 faith. for the first time ever, this large and influential movement
 is legitimately labeled as cultic.
 
 in this book, hanegraaff discusses such leaders of the word of faith 
 movement as e.w. kenyon and the twelve apostles of "another gospel" 
 (gal 1:6-9) (kenneth e. hagin, kenneth copeland, benny hinn, frederick
 k.c. price, john avanzini, robert tilton, marilyn hickey, paul (david) 
 yonggi cho, charles capps, jerry savelle, morris cerullo, and paul and 
 jan crouch).
 
 the book is now available through harvest house publishers and should
 be in most christian book stores soon. you can order a hard-back copy 
 through cri for $14.99 by calling 1-800-443-9797 and avoid retail 
 mark-ups.
 
 the christian research journal, which is a quarterly publication by cri 
 has an article in it's most recent issue just released called, "what's 
 wrong with the word faith movement?" this is a good article that will 
 inform you of each of the teachers above, and tide you over until your 
 book arrives. if you are interested in receiving the journal yourself, 
 you can order it from cri at the number above for $14 a year. it is the 
 best source of the most-accurate and well-researched info in christiandom 
 today.
 
 
 [if we're going to have a discussion of book here (and this is the
 third posting so far), i'd like people to say enough about its
 contents for people to decide whether it's worth reading.  --clh]
 