
 scott@prism.gatech.edu (scott holt) writes:
 
 >"hate the sin but love the sinner"...i've heard that quite a bit recently, 
 >often in the context of discussions about christianity and homosexuality...
 >but the context really isn't that important. my question is whether that
 >statement is consistent with christianity. i would think not.
 
 >hate begets more hate, never love. consider some sin. i'll leave it unnamed
 >since i don't want this to digress into an argument as to whether or not 
 >something is a sin. now lets apply our "hate the sin..." philosophy and see
 >what happens. if we truly hate the sin, then the more we see it, the 
 >stronger our hatred of it will become. eventually this hate becomes so 
 >strong that we become disgusted with the sinner and eventually come to hate
 >the sinner. in addition, our hatred of the sin often causes us to say and 
 
 that is an assumption on your part.  where is your proof that one always will
 degenerate into hating the sinner, because he hates the sin.
 
 i am reminded of the civil rights movement in america.  it is true that many
 individuals hated the proponents of racism.  it is also true that many 
 individuals hated segregation and discrimination with their whole heart and
 never degenerated into hating the individuals who practiced it.  dr. king's
 message was this.  love the individual, the loving of the individual would
 transform him into a friend.  however, this did not take away his hatred for
 segregation.  his hatred for injustice.  
 
 
 >in the summary of the law, christ commands us to love god and to love our 
 >neighbors. he doesn't say anything about hate. in fact, if anything, he 
 >commands us to save our criticisms for ourselves. so, how are christians
 >supposed to deal with the sin of others? i suppose that there is only one
 >way to deal with sin (either in others or ourselves)...through prayer. we
 >need to ask god to help us with our own sin, and to help those we love 
 >with theirs. only love can conquer sin...hatred has no place. the best way to
 >love someone is to pray for them. 
 
 i would ask, "did john the baptist practice love when he criticized the jewish
 leaders of his day?"  did jesus practice love when he threw the moneychangers
 out of the temple?
 
 we must have at least a distase for sin.  we must in order to fight it in 
 ourselves.  also we must be ready for the call from god to call sin by its
 right name.  jesus loved everyone, but he called sin by its right name.
 
 it is true that love for others is to guide every step of our walk, but it is
 also true that sometimes the love for god calls us to stand up for truth.
 
 --
 "competition is the law of the jungle.
  cooperation is the law of civilization."  --  eldridge cleaver
 
 sherman cox, ii		scox@uahcs2.cs.uah.edu
 