
 the following was published in the may 15th rocky mountain news.  i
 guess i have some real ethical problems with the practices at this
 church.  i understand that baptism is an overriding factor.  i also
 understand that this is not an honest way to proceed.  unfortunately,
 this is becoming more typical of congregations as the second coming is
 perceived to approach.
 
 there is a real element of disparation in this 'make it happen at any
 cost' style of theology.  i wonder where trust in the lord fits into
 this equation?
 
 baptisms draw parents' ire -- children at church carnival in springs
 told they'd be killed by bee stings if they didn't submit to religious
 rite.
 
 by dick foster -- rocky mountain news southern bureau
 
 colorado springs -- outraged parents say their children were lured to
 a church carnival and then baptixed without their permission by a
 baptist minister.
 
 doxens of children, some as young as 8 years old and unaccompanied by
 their parents, thought they were going to a carnival at the
 cornerstone baptist church, where there would be a big water fight,
 free balloons, squirt guns and candy.
 
 before that may 1 carnival was over, however, children were whisked
 into a room for religious instruction and told they should be
 baptized.  in many cases they consented, although they or their
 families are not of the baptist faith.
 
 the baptisms by the church have angered many parents, including
 paulette lamontagne, a methodist and mother of twin 8-year-old girls
 who were baptized without her knowledge or consent.
 
 'my understnading was they were going to a carnival.  i feel that's a
 false pretense,' said lamontagne.  her daughters said the minister
 told them they would be killed by bee stings if they were not
 baptized.
 
 cornerstone church officials defended their actions.
 
 'we take our instructions from the word of god and god has commanded
 us to baptize converts.  no one can show me one passage in the bible
 where it says that parental permission is required before a child is
 baptized,' said dan irwin, associate pastor of the cornerstone baptist
 church.
 
 church officials did not tell parents their children would be baptized
 because 'they didn't ask,' irwin said.
 
 many other parents also felt they were simply sending their children
 to a carnival at the invitation of their children's friends who were
 members of the cornerstone church.
 
 police said chhurch officials had broken on laws in baptizing the
 children, but indicated the parents could pursue civil action.
 
 -------------------------------------------
 aren't these the same behaviors we condemn
 in the hari krishnas and other cults?
 
 [i think the issues are more complex than the newspaper account
 mentions.  first, i'm not entirely sure that parental consent is
 absolutely required.  this would be extremely difficult, because of
 the clear commandment to obey parents.  but if an older child insisted
 on being baptized without their parents' consent, i might be willing
 to do it.  however this would be a serious step, and would warrant
 much careful discussion.  the problem i find here is not so much
 parental consent as that there was nobody's consent.  whether you
 believe in infant baptism or not, baptism is supposed to be the sign
 of entry into a christian community.  if there isn't a commitment from
 *somebody*, whether parent or child, and no intent to become part of
 the church, the baptism appears to be a lie.  furthermore, it is
 likely to raise serious practical problems.  what if the child is from
 a baptist tradition?  normally when he reaches the age of decision, he
 would be expected to make a decision and be baptized.  but he already
 has been, by a church claiming to be a baptist church.  so does he get
 rebaptized?  neither answer is really very good.  if not, he's being
 robbed of an experience that should be very significant to his faith.
 
 --clh]
 