
 in article <may.12.04.26.40.1993.9887@athos.rutgers.edu> u9245669@athmail1.cause
 way.qub.ac.uk writes (single angle brackets):
 
 >> jesus is talking with the
 >>apostles and they ask him why the pharisees say that before the messiah can 
 >>come elijah must first come. jesus replies that elijah has come, but they did 
 >>not recognize him. it then says that the apostles perceived that he was referi
 ng 
 >>to john the baptist. this seems to me to clearly imply reincarnation.
 >
 >this was a popular belief in the judaism of jesus` time, that elijah
 >would return again (as he had been taken in to heaven in a chariot and
 >did not actually die).  however jesus was referring to john the
 >baptist not in the sense that elijah was reincarnated as john
 >(remember elijah didn`t die) but that john was a similar prophet to
 >elijah. >
 
 there is no question of similarity in jesus indication about john.
 the passage in matthew is very direct.  where luke (1:17) reports
 the angel gabriel prophesying that john will go before christ "in the 
 power and spirit of elias", in matthew 11: 14, jesus himself says of john,
    
    "and if you care to accept it, he himself is elijah, who
     was to come".
 
 it is interesting that jesus prepended the words, "if you care to accept
 it", as if to say that the implications of this truth, namely of rein-
 carnation, i will not force on you, but for those who can accept it, here it
 is.  a jewish poster to other newsgroups on jewish esotericism and other
 topics has outlined the esoteric, cabbalistic jewish teaching of of
 reincarnation and karma, a teaching that is little known among jews
 today, but which is apparently widespread enough in israel that hannah
 hurnard ("hinds feet on high places") was told about it by a rabbi
 she was trying to convert back in the 1940s as a missionary in palestine.
 thus there may well have been a small number of jews who knew about this,
 whereas the large number of people did not.  the statement of jesus about 
 john, the greatest human personality in the new testament, is guarded
 but nevertheless quite direct.  again, the subject of reincarnation, one
 way or another, is not a subject of the new testament, nor is the fate in general
 of the human being between death and the last judgement.  but there are 
 occasional indications that point to it.
 
 as for the "popular belief" that elijah would come again, it was more than 
 a popular belief, as jesus confirms it in more than one place, and he never 
 corrected those who were expecting elijah --  for example, those who thought 
 that jesus himself be he.
 
 gerry palo (73237.2006@compuserve.com)
 