
 in article <may.13.02.28.01.1993.1436@geneva.rutgers.edu> jek@cu.nih.gov  
 writes:
 >      in one sense, no statement by another is subject to my private
 > interpretation. if reliable historians tell me that the athenians
 > lost the pelopennesian war, i cannot simply interpret this away
 > because i wanted the athenians to win. facts are facts and do not go
 > away because i want them to be otherwise.
 >      in another sense, every statement is subject to private
 > interpretation, in that i have to depend on my brains and
 > expereience to decide what it means, and whether it is sufficiently
 > well attested to merit my assent. even if the statement occurs in an
 > inspired writing, i still have to decide, using my own best
 > judgement, whether it is in fact inspired. this is not arrogance --
 > it is just an inescapable fact.
 
 yes, there are these two senses of interpretation, and certainly our
 decision to accept scripture as inspired ultimately rests on our own
 private opinion.  however, when reading scripture, we have to remember
 that the scriptures were given by god for our instruction, and that
 the interpretation that matters is the one god intended.  for example,
 if i decide that the fact that john the baptist is elijah teaches the
 doctrine of reincarnation, i am wrong because that is not the intended
 interpretation.  the prophets didn't make up this teaching; it came
 from god, and we must accept it as such.  this necessarily means that
 our private interpretations must take a back seat to the meaning god
 intended to convey.  certainly we must rely on our best efforts to
 determine what this meaning is, but this very fact should make us
 recognize that our private interpretations cannot be automatically
 accepted as the infallible interpretation of god.  we need to test the
 spirits to see if they are from god.  when the holy spirit speaks, he
 says the same thing to all; he won't tell me that a passage means one
 thing and tell you it means another.  if the two of us come to
 conflicting conclusions, we can't both be completely right.  we know
 our interpretations are reliable only when the church as a whole
 agrees on what scripture means.  this is how we know the doctrines of
 the trinity, the dual nature of christ, etc. infallibly.  these
 matters are not up for private interpretation.
 
 this is the reason peter goes on to talk about the deceptiveness of
 the false teachers.  they preferred their own private interpretation
 to the god-given teaching of the apostles.  it is through such private
 interpretation that the traditions of men, so soundly denounced in
 scripture, are started.
 
 tony
 