
 "michael" == michael siemon <mls@panix.com> writes:
 
 michael> the kind of interpretation i see as "incredibly perverse" is
 michael> that applied to the story of sodom as if it were a blanket
 michael> equation of homosexual behavior and rape.  since christians
 michael> citing the bible in such a context should be presumed to have
 michael> at least read the story, it amounts to slander -- a charge
 michael> that homosexuality == rape -- to use that against us.
 
 and
 
 michael>  it is just
 michael> as wrong (though slightly less incendiary, so it's a
 michael> secondary argument from the 'phobic contingent) to equate
 michael> homosexuality with such behavior as to equate it with the
 michael> rape of god's messengers.
 
 let's review the sodom and gomorrah story briefly.  it states
 clearly that the visitors were angels.  but "all the men from every
 part of the city of sodom--both young and old--surrounded the
 house.  they called to lot, `where are the *men* who came to 
 you tonight?  bring them out to us so that we can have sex 
 with them.' " 
 
 for the rest of the story the angels are referred to by the men
 of sodom and by lot as *men*.  furthermore we know from gen 18:20,21
 that the lord had already found sodom guilty of grievous sin--before
 the angels visited the city.  it is clear that the grievous sin
 of sodom and gomorrah involved homosexual sex.  it appears that
 the men had become so inflamed in their lust that they had
 group orgies in the public square--which simply indicates 
 the extremity of their depravity.  it does not show that lesser 
 degrees of homosexuality are not sinful, as michael would have us
 believe.
 
 ultimately our understanding of god's will for sexuality comes from
 the creation story--not solely on the story of sodom and gomorrah.  he
 created us male and female, and instituted marriage as a relationship
 between one male and one female, "therefore a man will leave his
 father and mother, and be united with his wife, and they will become
 one flesh."  this marriage relationship is the only sexual
 relationship which god blesses and sanctions. he regulates and
 protects the marriage of man and woman, and even uses it as a picture
 of the relationship between himself and his church.  but we find not
 one word of blessing or regulation for a sexual relationship between 
 two men, or between two women.
 
 everything else that we find in the bible about sexuality derives from
 or expresses god's will in instituting and blessing marriage.  thus
 the levitical code, which was given only to the jews, forbade incest,
 homosexuality, bestiality; the ten commandments forbade adultery and
 the coveting of our neighbor's wife; other commandments forbade rape.
 the men of sodom and gomorrah were regarded as sexually immoral and
 perverse (jude 7) because they abandoned and/or polluted the marriage
 relationship.  thus also paul regarded homosexuality as `unnatural',
 romans 1:26,27--not because this was simply paul's opinion,
 but because it was contrary to god's purpose in creating us
 male and female.
   
 michael> christians, no doubt very sincere ones, keep showing up here
 michael> and in every corner of usenet and the world, and all they
 michael> ever do is spout these same old verses (which they obviously
 michael> have never thought about, maybe never even read), in total
 michael> ignorance of the issues raised, slandering us with the vilest
 michael> charges of child abuse or whatever their perfervid minds can
 michael> manage to conjure up, tossing out red herrings with (they
 michael> suppose) great emotional force to cause readers to dismiss
 michael> our witness without even taking the trouble to find out what
 michael> it is.
 
 really, have you no better response to `slander' than more
 slander?
 
 david h. wagner			"the day is surely drawing near
 a confessional lutheran		when god's son, the annointed,
 				shall with great majesty appear
 				as judge of all appointed.
 				all mirth and laughter then shall
 					cease
 				when  flames on flames will still
 					increase
 				as scripture truly teacheth."
 				--"es ist gewisslich an der zeit" v. 1
 				--bartholomaeus ringwaldt, 1586
 