
 aaronc@athena.mit.edu (aaron bryce cardenas) writes:
 
 >bruce webster writes:
 >>indeed, lds doctrine goes one step further and in some cases
 >>holds parents responsible for their children's sins if they have
 >>failed to bring them up properly (cf. d&c 68:25-28; note that this
 >>passage applies it only to members of the lds church).
 
 i include the key verse (d&c 68:25) because others
 may not have the reference.
 
 "and again, inasmuch as parents have children in zion,
 or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach
 them not to understand the doctrine of repentance,
 faith in christ the son of the living god, and of
 baptism and the gift of the holy ghost by the laying
 on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be
 upon the heads of the parents."
 
 what is "the sin" of the parents?
 
 >hi bruce.  how do you reconcile this practice with ezekiel 18?
 >ezekiel 18:20 "the soul who sins is the one who will die.  the son will not
 >share the guilt of the father, nor will the father share the guilt of the
 >son.  the righteousness of the righteous man will be credited to him, and
 >the wickedness of the wicked will be charged against him."
 
 >is ezekiel 18 not translated correctly in your eyes perhaps?
 
 ezekiel 18 teaches a correct principle.
 however, it assumes that fathers and sons have 
 equal knowledge to prepare for the judgment.
 
 parents are responsible to teach their children
 the gospel and other life skills.  should they
 fail to make a sufficient attempt to teach their 
 children, the parent would be held responsible
 -- not for their children's sins, but for not
 teaching them properly.
 
 whenever the lord installs someone to a position 
 of authority in either the family or the church he
 expects that person to teach those in his charge.
 
 in ezekiel 33:7-9 someone called to care for others 
 is likened to "a watchman unto the house of israel."
 "if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from 
 his way, that man shall die in his iniquity; but
 his blood will i require at thine hand.
 nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to 
 turn from it; if he do not turn from his way, he
 shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast
 delivered thy soul."
 
 even though the d&c prefaces this commandment with
 "parents have children in zion" i believe all
 parents are responsible for teaching their children 
 whatever good principles they understand.
 however, lds parents accept greater responsbility
 and could be judged more strictly.
 
 a idler
 