
 the blessed virgin mary appeared to catherine laboure, a nun of the
 sisters of charity on july 18, 1830 at rue du bac, paris.
 
 sister catherine was awakened late that night by a small boy, age 5
 or 6, who was literally glowing with some sort of interior light. 
 the child led her to the sanctuary of the chapel where he promised
 the virgin mary was to be found awaiting her. our lady appeared to
 her and instructed her for two hours or more on matters pertaining
 to her life and to the future of france and the world.
 
 on november 27 our lady appeared again to catherine. she instructed
 her to have a medal struck. she told her that those who wore this 
 medal would enjoy special protection from the mother of god and would
 receive great graces. in less than a year there were three more
 apparitions. in june of 1831 the medals were a reality. many reports
 were received by those who wore it. within two years of its issuing
 the medal was known as the "miraculous medal". catherine died in 1876.
 her body to this day is remarkably preserved (incorrupt). she was
 canonized on july 27, 1947. her body lies in the chapel at the
 motherhouse on the rue du bac where she had her first meeting with
 our lady.
 
 the apparition on november 27 1830 was of average height and clothed
 in white with a veil that flowed over the head and fell to the floor.
 above the altar, a pyramid painted to represent god's all knowing
 wisdom looked down on them. our lady's feet rested on a white globe
 and there was also a green serpent with yellow spots that she was
 stepping on. in her hands was a golden ball that represented the world.
 great streams of light issued from her hands and she also showed 
 catherine an image of two hearts, the sacred heart wrapped in
 piercing thorns and her own heart punctured by a sword. the sword
 represented her suffering with jesus.
 
 the apparitions announced the onset of the great battle and forewarned
 that a dark era lay in the immediate future. it was the apparition 
 leading up to the recent ones. our lady began to dispense secrets.
 and with the globe she revealed herself in worldwide dispute
 with the forces of the dark. she told catherine "the times are
 evil. misfortunes will fall upon france. the throne will be
 overturned. the entire world will be overcome by evils of all
 kinds."
 
 refer to books on st. catherine for more of our lady's messages.
 a copy of the medal is also available in catholic bookstores.
 
 i will post other marian events every few days or so including
 the ones happening today which are still under investigation.
 these postings serve only to introduce you to these events.
 please look more into them and understand the reason for 
 the increasing number and urgency of these apparitions.
 
 -- 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------
 mark ashley                        |disclaimer: my opinions. not harris'
 marka@gcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com      |
 the lost los angelino              |
 