
 (this is a continuation of an earlier post)
 
 mls@panix.com (michael siemon) writes:
 >for those christians who *do* think that *some* parts of leviticus can
 >be "law" for christians (while others are not even to be thought about)
 >it is incumbent on you *in every case, handled on its own merits* to
 >determine why you "pick" one and ignore another.  i frankly think the
 >whole effort misguided.  reread paul: "no doubt i am free to do anything."
 >but christians have a criterion to use for making our judgments on this,
 >the great commandment of love for god and neighbor.  if you cannot go
 >through leviticus and decide each "command" there on that basis, then
 >your own arbitrary selection from it is simply idiosyncracy.  in this
 >context, it is remarkably offensive to say:
 > 
 >>i notice that the verse forbidding bestiality immediately follows the
 >>verse prohibiting what appears to be homosexual intercourse.
 
 (i am sorry you found this offensive.  it was not my intent to offend.  i was 
 leading up to another point, which i discuss in more detail below.)
 
 >well, la-ti-da.  so what?  this is almost as slimey an argument as the
 >one that homosexuality == rape.  i know of no one who argues seriously
 >(though one can always find jokers) in "defense" of bestiality.  it is
 >absolutely irrelevant and incomparable to the issues gay christians *do*
 >raise (which concern sexual activity within committed, consensual human
 >adult realtionships), so that your bringing it up is no more relevant
 >than the laws of kashrut.  if you cannot address the actual issues, you
 >are being bloody dishonest in trailing this red herring in front of the
 >world.  if *you* want to address bestiality, that is your business, not
 >mine.  and attempting to torpedo a serious issue by using what is in
 >our culture a ridiculous joke shows that you have no interest in hearing
 >us as human beings.  you want to dismiss us, and use the sleaziest means
 >you can think of to do so.
 
 i can see you have a revulsion for bestiality that far exceeds my distaste for 
 homosexuality.  certainly if i spoke about homosexuality the way you speak of 
 bestiality, nobody would have any trouble labelling me a homophobe.  let me ask 
 this gently:  why are you so judgemental of other people's sexual preferences?  
 what happened to "no doubt i am free to do anything"?  i think you have a 
 serious double standard here.  when you describe a comparison between 
 homosexuality and bestiality as "slimey" and "sleazy", you are making an 
 implicit judgement that bestiality is perverted, sinful, disgusting, 
 unnatural--in short, all the things that society once thought about 
 homosexuality.  not all people share your view.  you claim not to know any 
 sincere zoophiles, but this does not mean that they do not exist.  they even 
 have their own newsgroup:  alt.sex.bestiality.  are you going to accuse them 
 all of being mere "jokers"?
 
 i notice you deleted the main point of my comment:  the fact that the only 
 biblical condemnations of bestiality occur in connection with the levitical 
 prohibitions against homosexuality.  while there are some new testament 
 passages that can arguably be taken as condemning homosexuality, there are none 
 that condemn bestiality.  one of your main points seems to be that christian 
 homosexuality is acceptable due to the lack of any "clear" new testament 
 statements against it; if this is a valid argument, then should not christian 
 zoophilia be made that much more acceptable by the fact that the new testament 
 makes no reference, clear or unclear, to the subject at all?
 
 i am quite serious here.  if i am going to accept homosexuality as biblically 
 acceptable on the basis of your arguments, then i am going to be fair and apply 
 the same standards to everyone else's declared sexual preferences as well.  if 
 the arguments you make for homosexuality can be applied to other sexual 
 preferences as well, i'm going to apply them and see what comes up.  i'm not 
 trying to "torpedo a serious issue" by using what you label "a ridiculous 
 joke".  i posted a question about how we should interpret biblical guidelines 
 for christian sexuality, and i don't think such a question is "irrelevant" in a 
 group called "soc.religion.christian".  the bible discusses homosexuality and 
 bestiality together in the same context, and therefore i feel i have a good 
 precedent for doing the same.
 
 >jesus and paul both expound, very explictly and in considerable length,
 >the central linch-pin of christian moral thought: we are required to
 >love one another, and all else depends on that.  gay and lesbian christ-
 >ians challenge you to address the issue on those terms -- and all we get
 >in return are cheap debate tricks attempting to side-track the issues.
 
 i don't know whether it makes any difference, but for the record, this is not a 
 side issue for me.  i believe loving one another includes not encouraging 
 people to defile themselves, therefore it is of high importance to determine 
 whether god regards certain sexual acts as defiling.  i can read in the new 
 testament that "god has joined together" heterosexual couples, and that the 
 marriage bed is undefiled.  i can read in the old testament that homosexual 
 intercourse and bestiality defile a person whether or not that person is under 
 the law.  if gay christians can validly put aside the old testament standards 
 of defilement, then i want to know so that i can fairly apply it to all the 
 sexual practices that defiled a person in the old days.  i don't think it's 
 right to take just bits and pieces of the law and try and apply them to 
 christians today, e.g. bestiality still defiles you but homosexuality doesn't.  
 that was pretty much what you said earlier, right?  you used different 
 examples, but i think you said essentially the same thing about it being wrong 
 to apply only certain parts of the law to christians. 
 
 >christians, no doubt very sincere ones, keep showing up here and in every
 >corner of usenet and the world, and all they ever do is spout these same
 >old verses (which they obviously have never thought about, maybe never
 >even read), in total ignorance of the issues raised, slandering us with
 >the vilest charges of child abuse or whatever their perfervid minds can
 >manage to conjure up, tossing out red herrings with (they suppose) great
 >emotional force to cause readers to dismiss our witness without even
 >taking the trouble to find out what it is.
 
 it was not my intent to stir up such an emotional reaction.  i personally don't 
 get all that upset discussing alternatives to the monogamous heterosexual 
 orientation; i'm afraid i naively assumed that others would have a similar 
 attitude.  please note that i have never intended to equate homosexuality with 
 child abuse.  i have merely noted that, for all the lack of "clear" nt 
 condemnation of homosexuality, there is an even greater lack of nt condemnation 
 (or even mention) of bestiality, a practice which a number of people (e.g. on 
 alt.sex.bestiality) consider to be their true sexual orientation.
 
 >such behavior should shame anyone who claims to have seen truth in christ.
 >why, for god's precious sake, do you people quote irrelevant verses to
 >condemn people you don't know and won't even take the trouble to listen
 >to before you start your condemnations?  is that loving your neighbor?
 >god forbid!  is that how you obey the repeated commands to not judge or
 >condemn others?  christ and paul spend orders of magnitude more time in
 >insisting on this than the half-dozen obscure words in paul that you are
 >so bloody ready to take as license to do what god tells you not to do.
 > 
 >why, for god's sake?
 > [quote from john 3:17ff omitted for brevity]
 
 this is an excellent question, and i pray that you will not treat it as a mere 
 rhetorical question, but will genuinely seek to discover and understand the 
 answer.  i recommend you begin with a little introspection into why you 
 yourself have much the same attitude towards zoophilia.  why do you find 
 bestiality so repugnant that you regard it as slanderous to even mention in 
 connection with other alternative sexual orientations?  why do you not apply 
 all the same verses about love and tolerance to zoophiles the way you apply 
 them to homosexuals?
 
 is it because you automatically experience a subjective feeling of revulsion at 
 the thought?  a lot of people have the same experience at the thought of 
 homosexual intercourse.  is it because you regard the practice as socially 
 unacceptable?  a lot of people regard homosexuality as socially unacceptable.  
 do you feel that it violates the traditional judeo-christian standard of sexual 
 morality?  many people feel that homosexuality does.  do you feel the bible 
 condemns it?  many people think the bible says more to condemn homosexuality 
 than it does to condemn bestiality.  why then do you think comparing bestiality 
 with homosexuality is insulting to homosexuality?  if you can honestly answer 
 this question, you will have come a long way towards understanding why many 
 people feel the same way about homosexuality as you feel about bestiality.
 
 also please note that i am not in any sense condemning *people*.  i am merely 
 pointing out that when i read the bible i see certain sexual *practices* that 
 the bible appears to condemn, e.g. sex outside of marriage.  when i say i think 
 adultery and pre-marital sex are sinful, do you take that as me failing to love 
 my neighbor?  when you treat bestiality as something disgusting and 
 unmentionable, are you disobeying "repeated orders not to judge or condemn 
 others"?  when you say other christians are guilty of sinning by condemning you 
 and judging you, are you by that accusation making yourself guilty of the same 
 offense?  or are you and i both simply taking note about *practices* the bible 
 brands as sinful, and leaving the judgement of the *people* up to god?
 
 >for long ages, we (many of us) have been confused by evil counsel from
 >evil men and told that if we came to the light we would be shamed and
 >rejected.  some of us despaired and took to courses that probably *do*
 >show a sinful shunning of god's light.  blessed are those whose spirits
 >have been crushed by the self-righteous; they shall be justified.
 >
 >however, we have seen the truth, and the truth is the light of humanity;
 >and we now know that it is not we who fear the light, but our enemies who
 >fear the light of our witness and will do everything they can to shadow
 >it with the darkness of false witness against us.
 >-- 
 >michael l. siemon               i say "you are gods, sons of the
 >mls@panix.com                   most high, all of you; nevertheless
 >    - or -                      you shall die like men, and fall
 >mls@ulysses.att..com            like any prince."   psalm 82:6-7
 
 i'm not sure what you mean by the above two paragraphs.  if you mean that jesus 
 is the truth, and that he accepts sinners, and does not reject them, then i 
 agree.  if we were not sinners, then we would not *need* a savior.  our 
 salvation in christ, however, does not mean that sin is now irrelevant for us, 
 and we can now do whatever we want.  nor does christ's grace mean that those 
 who refer to sin as "sin" are being judgemental or intolerant.  i am speaking 
 in general terms here, not specifically about homosexuality.  if the bible 
 calls something "sin", then it is not unreasonable for christians to call it 
 sin too.
 
 as applied to christian homosexuality, i think the only definitive authority on 
 christian sexuality is the bible.  if you make a list of everything the bible 
 says on the subject of homosexual intercourse, i think you will find that every 
 verse on the list is negative and condemning at worst, and "unclear" at best.  
 the most pro-gay statement you could make about the list is that there is some 
 dispute about the new testament verses which many people interpret as 
 condemning homosexual intercourse.  that is, from a gay perspective, the most 
 positive thing you can say about the bible's treatment of homosexuality is that 
 some verses fail to clearly condemn it.  that's it.  jesus declared all foods 
 clean, the council at jerusalem declared that gentiles were not required to 
 keep the ritual law, but nobody ever reclassified homosexual intercourse from 
 being an abomination deserving of death to being an accepted christian 
 practice.  you have verses describing homosexual intercourse as an abomination 
 that defiles both jews under the law and gentiles not under the law, and you 
 have some verses which are at best "not clear" but which some people believe 
 *are* clear in their condemnation of homosexual behavior, and that's the sum 
 total of what the bible says about same-sex intercourse.
 
 i can appreciate (from personal experience) your desire to have everything 
 simple, cut-and-dried, black-and-white, what-i-want- is-ok, and 
 those-who-oppose-me-are-wicked.  however, i do not think the bible makes your 
 case as definitively as you would like it to.  in fact, i don't believe it says 
 anything positive about your case at all.  yes, i know the verses about loving 
 one another, and not judging one another, but that's not really the issue, is 
 it?  you know and admit that there are still things that are sinful for 
 christians to do, since you say it is wrong for christians to condemn you.  
 therefore, the issue is whether the bible says homosexual intercourse is a sin.  
 even if you do challenge the clarity of the new testament verses, you are still 
 left with the fact that the only thing the bible does say clearly about 
 homosexual intercourse is that it is an abomination that defiles both those who 
 are under the law and those who are not.
 
 - mark
 
 
 [actually i don't think the reaction to the comparision with
 bestiality is based on bestialophobia.  i think what he regards as
 slimey is the rhetorical approach of connecting homosexuality and
 bestiality.  most people who accept homosexuality take a radical
 approach to the law.  they regard all of lev as not binding on
 christians.  the argument is that there's no way in the text to
 separate bestiality, homosexuality, and wearing mixed fabrics.  this
 does not mean that such people have no limits on their conduct, nor
 does it mean that they accept bestiality.  it simply means that their
 sexual ethics does not come from the law, and particularly not from
 lev.  --clh]
 