
 [cont. dr. james deyoung; #3]
 
 r. scroggs
 
      robin scroggs has built upon the discussion of his predecessors and
 suggested a new twist to the word.  scroggs believes that arsenokoitai is a
 "hellenistic jewish coinage, perhaps influenced by awareness of rabbinic
 terminology."  the term is derived from lev 18"22 & 20:13 where the lxx
 juxtaposes the two words arsenos ("male") and koiten ("bed"), and represents
 the hebrew miskab zabar ("lying with a male").   yet he believes that paul did
 not originate the term, but borrowed it from "circles of hellenistic jews
 acquainted with rabbinic discussions" (180 n.14).  it was invented to avoid
 "contact with the usual greek terminology" (108).  if this is true, scroggs
 observes, it explains why the word does not appear in greco-roman discussions
 of pederasty and why later patristic writers avoided it.  it was meaningless to
 native-speaking greeks (108).
 
      scroggs takes the second part as the active word and the first word as the
 object of the second part, thus differing from boswell's "learned discussion"
 (107).  yet scroggs understands the general meaning of "one who lies with a
 male" to have a very narrow reference.  with the preceding malokoi (i cor 6:9),
 which scroggs interprets as "the effeminate call-boy," arsenokoitai is the
 active partner "who keeps the malakos of the 'mistress' or who hires him on
 occasion to satisfy his sexual desires" (108).  hence arsenokoitai does not
 refer to homosexuality in general, to female homosexuality, or to the generic
 model of pederasty.  it certainly cannot refer to the modern gay model, he
 affirms (109).
      this is scrogg's interpretation of the term in i tim 1:10 also.  the
 combination of pornoi ("fornicators"), arsenokoitai and andrapodistai ("slave
 dealers") refers to "male prostitutes, males who lie [with them], and slave
 dealers [who procure them]" (120).  it again refers to that  specific form of
 pederasty "which consisted of the enslaving of boys as youths for sexual
 purposes, and the use of these boys by adult males" (121).  even "serious
 minded pagan authors" condemned this form of pederasty.  he then uses these
 instances of arsenokoitai in i cor and i tim to interpret the apparently
 general condemnation of both female and male homosexuality in rom 1. 
 consequently paul "must have had, could only have had pederasty in mind" (122).
 we cannot know what paul would have said about the "contemporary model of
 adult/adult mutuality in same sex relation ships" (122).
 
      in relating these terms to the context and to contemporary ethical
 concerns, scroggs emphasizes the point that the specific items in the list of
 vices in i cor 6 have no deliberate, intended meaning in paul.  the form and
 function of the catalogue of vices are traditional and stereotyped.  any
 relationship between an individual item in the list and the context was usually
 nonexistent.  he concludes that paul "does not care about any specific item in
 the lists" (104). 
 
      both on the basis of the meaning of the terms and of the literary
 phenomenon of a "catalogue of vices,"  scroggs argues that the scriptures are
 "irrelevant and provide no help in the heated debate today" (129).  the "model
 in today's christian homosexual community is so different from the model
 attacked by the nt" that "biblical judgments against homosexuality are not
 relevant to today's debate.  they should no longer be used in denominational
 discussions about homosexuality, should in no way be a weapon to justify
 refusal of ordination. . . " (127).
 
       reactions to the new interpretations of arsenokoitai
 
 d. wright
 
      in more recent years the positions of bailey, boswell, and scroggs have
 come under closer scrutiny.   perhaps the most critical evaluation of boswell's
 view is that by david wright.  in his thorough article, wright points out
 several shortcomings of boswell's treatment of arsenokoitai.   he faults
 boswell for failing to cite, or citing inaccurately, all the references to lev
 18:22 and 20:13 in the church fathers, such as eusebius, the "apostolic
 constitutions,"  clement of alexandria, tertullian and origen (127-28). 
 boswell has not considered seriously enough the possibility that the term
 derives either its form or its meaning from the leviticus passages (129).  this
 is significant, for if the term is so derived, it clearly refutes boswell's
 claim that the first half of the word (arseno-) denotes not the object but the
 gender of the second half (-koitai).  the lxx must mean "a male who sleeps with
 a male," making arseno- the object.
 
      wright also faults boswell's claims regarding linguistic features of the
 term, including suggested parallels (129).  though boswell claims that
 compounds with arseno- employ it objectively and those with arreno- employ it
 as an adjective, wright believes that the difference between the two is merely
 one of dialectical diversity: "no semantic import attaches to the difference
 between the two forms" (131).  wright believes that in most compounds in which
 the second half is a verb or has a verbal force, the first half denotes its
 object and where "the second part is substantival, the first half denotes its
 gender" (132). 
 
      it is with boswell's treatment of the early church fathers that wright
 takes special issue, because the former has failed to cite all the sources. 
 for example, aristides' apology (c. ad 138) probably uses arrenomaneis,
 androbaten, and arsenokoitias all with the same basic meaning of male
 homosexuality (133), contrary to boswell's discussion.  boswell fails to cite
 hippolytus (refut. omn. haer. 5:26:22-23) and improperly cites eusebius and the
 syriac writer bardensanes.  the latter uses syriac terms that are identical to
 the syriac of i cor 6:9 and i tim 1:10 (133-34). 
 
      next wright shows how the early church fathers use arsenokoitai in
 parallel with paidophthoria referring to male homosexuality with teenagers, the
 dominant form of male homosexuality among the greeks (134).  sometimes this
 parallelism occurs in the threefold listings of moicheia ("adultery"), porneia
 ("fornication"), and paidophthoria, with arsenokoitai replacing paidophthoris
 (136).  clement of alexandria in protr. 10:108:5 cites the second table of the
 ten commandments as "you shall not kill, ou moicheuseis ("you shall not commit
 adultery"), ou paidophthoreseis ("you shall not practice homosexuality with
 boys"), you shall not steal. . ." (150 n. 43).
 
      another occurrence of arsenokoitein ("commit homosexuality") exists in the
 sibylline oracles 2:71-73.  it may be, wright observes, that the word was
 coined by a jewish pre-christian writer in a hellenistic setting represented by
 or.sib., book 2 (137-38).
 
      wright also discusses uses of arsenokoitai in rhetorius (6th c.) who drew
 upon the first century ad writer teucer, in macarius (4th-5th c.), and in john
 the faster (d. 595) (139-40).  the last in particular bears the idea of
 homosexual intercourse, contrary to boswell.
 
      wright next replies to boswell's contention that the term would not be
 absent "from so much literature about homosexuality if that is what it denoted
 (140-41).  wright points out that it should not be expected in writers prior to
 the first century ad since it did not exist before then, that the greeks used
 dozens of words and phrases to refer to homosexuality, that some sources (e.g.
 didache) show no acquaintance with paul's letters or deliberately avoid citing
 scripture, and that boswell neglects citing several church fathers (140-41). 
 
      boswell's treatment of chrysostom in particular draws wright's attention
 (141-44).  boswell conspicuously misrepresents the witness of chrysostom,
 omitting references and asserting what is patently untrue.  chrysostom gives a
 long uncompromising and clear indictment of homosexuality in his homily on rom
 1:26.  boswell has exaggerated chrysostom's infrequent use of the term.  wright
 observes that boswell has "signally failed to demonstrate any us of
 arsenokoites etc. in which it patently does not denote male homosexual
 activity" (144).  it is infrequent because of its relatively technical nature
 and the availability of such a term as paidophthoria that more clearly
 specified the prevailing form of male homosexuality in the greco-roman world. 
 
      wright also surveys the latin, syriac, and coptic translations of i tim
 and i cor.  all three render arsenokoitai with words that reflect the meaning
 "homosexual" i.e., they understand arseno- as the object of the second half of
 the word (144-45).  none of these primary versions supports boswell's limited
 conclusion based on them.
 
      wright concludes his discussion with a few observations about the
 catalogues of vices as a literary form.  he believes that such lists developed
 in late judaism as hellenistic jews wrote in clear condemnation of
 homosexuality in the greek world.  this paralleled the increased concern on the
 part of moral philosophers over homosexual indulgence.  the term came into
 being under the influence of the lxx (145) so that writers spoke "generally of
 male activity with males rather than specifically categorized male sexual
 engagement with paides" (146).  if arsenokoitai and paidophthoria were
 interchangeable, it is because the former encompassed the latter (146).
 
      in summary, wright seeks to show that arsenokoitai is a broad term meaning
 homosexuality and arises with judaism.   the views of boswell, scroggs, and
 others who limit the term to "active male prostitutes" or pederasty are without
 significant support from linguistic and historical studies.  
 
 [next: the questioning of wrights position by william peterson.  after that, we
 get into the "good" stuff of historical & linguistic studies.  this will
 include "symposium" by plato.  if there is any doubt as to the modern
 understanding of homosexuality being understood or contemmplated at the time of
 paul, this will certainly clear things up.  also we will review paul's use of
 lev18-20 in the nt and how, as for him, 1) the law was fulfilled, but not done
 away with, 2) lev 18-20 was the universal and the following chapters the
 general.  those who put forth that the ot no longer holds true today in our
 culture, should stick around for this one.]
 ___________________________
 13 r. scroggs, the new testament and homosexuality (phil: 1983) 86, 107-8. 
 independently we came to the same conclusion.  apparently the connection is
 made in e.a. sophocles, greek lexicon of the roman & byzantine periods (from
 146bc to ad 1100).
 14   see discussion, 101-4.  he says the same thing about paul's language in
 rom 1:26-27 (128).  but this is doubtful.  see the more cautious words of p.
 zaas, "i cor 6.9ff: was homosexuality condoned in the corinthian church? sblasp
 17 (1979):205-12.  he observes that the words moixai, malakoi, and arsenokoitai
 were part of jewish anti-gentile polemic.  yet paul's wors at the end of the
 vice list, "and such were some of you," indicate that "paul is addressing real
 or potential abuses of his ethical message, not citing primitive tradition by
 rote" (210).  wright disputes zaas' attempt to associate the term with idolatry
 (147).
 15  on boswell's treatment of rom 1:26-7, the article by r.b. hays, "relations
 natural and unnatural"  a response to john boswell's exegesis of romans 1," jre
 14/1 (spring 1986): 184-215, is an excellent critique.
 16  d.f. wright, "homosexuals or prostitutes?  the meaning of arsenokoitai (i
 cor 6:9, i tim 1:10), vc 38 (1984):125-53.
 17  in an unpublished paper, henry mendell, "arsenokoitai: boswell on paul,"
 effectively refutres boswell's claims regarding the philology of arsenokoitai. 
 he finds the meaning to be general, "a male who has sex with a male" (4-11).  
 18  wright's endnotes (148-49) list additional sources in the church fathers.
 19   we also have noticed the same tendency by boswell to fail to cite all the
 references to sodom and sodomy in the apocrypha and pseudepigrapha.  see  j.b.
 deyoung, "a critique of prohomosexual interpretations of the ot apocrypha and
 pseudepigrapha," bsac 146/588 (1990):437-53.
 20   in light of the claim made by boswell that the infrequency of arsenokoitai
 points to a meaning lacking homosexual significance, wright asks pertinently
 "why neither philo nor josephus use  paidofthoria, nor josephus paiderastia,
 and why . . clement did not use the latter and chrysostom the former?"  (152 n.
 71)  in a more recent article, "homosexuality: the relevance of the bible," evq
 61 (1989):291-300, wright reiterates these same points.  paul shows a
 "remarkable originality" in extending the ot ethic to the church (300).
 
  
 