
 bill rea (cctr114@cantua.canterbury.ac.nz) wrote:
 > his theology clashed with the theology of the
 > local prophets. it was out of a very deep understanding of the mosaic
 > covenant and an actute awareness of international events that jeremiah
 > spoke his prophesies. the "judgement prophesies" were deeply loaded with
 > theological meaning.
 
 > in my opinion, both the portland earthquake prophesy and the david wilkerson
 > "new york will burn" prophesy are froth and bubble compared to the majestic
 > theological depths of the jeremiah prophesies.
 
 perhaps one other thing i should have added is that jeremiah's prophesies
 about the coming destruction of jerusalem would have been understood by
 the people of that time to be a full frontal assault on their understanding
 of their relationship with the lord. today the if the general populace 
 hears "prophesies" like the portland earthquake or new york will burn
 ones, they are unlikely to see it in the context of their relationship
 (or lack of it) with the lord. they are far more likely to think that
 they are just the result of the fevered imaginations of a religious nutter.
 that is one reason why i am always deep;y suspicious of bald judgement
 prophesies without any explanation of the reasons for the judgement. this
 doesn't have to be long winded. to see a relatively modern example look
 at abraham lincoln's second inaugural speech. the relevant section is
 below. it is this type of spiritual insight which was missing in both
 prophesies posted here.
 
 --- excerpt from abraham lincoln's 2nd inaugural speech----
 
 both read the same bible, and pray 
 to the same god; and each invokes his aid against the other. it may seem 
 strange that any men should dare to ask a just god's assistance in wringing 
 their bread from the sweat of other men's faces; but let us judge not
 that we be not judged. the prayers of both could not he answered that of neither
 has been answered fully. the almighty has his own purposes. ''woe unto the
 world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to
 that man by whom the offence cometh" if we shall suppose that american 
 slavery is one of those offences which, in the provdence of god, must needs come
 but which, having  continued through  his appointed time, he now wills to remove
 and that he gives to both north and south, this terrible war, as the woe due to
 those by whom the offence came, shall we discern therein an departure from
 those divine attribute which the believers in a living god always  ascribe 
 to him ? fondly do we hope - fervently do we pray - that this mighty 
 scourge of war may speedily pass away. yet, if god wills that it continue, 
 until all the wealth piled by the bond-man's two hundred and fifty years of 
 unrequited  toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn  with 
 the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three 
 thousand  years ago, so still it must be said "the judgments of the lord, 
 are true and righteous altogether"
   with malice toward none; with charity for all;  with firmness in the right, 
 as god gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we 
 are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have 
 borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan - to do all which 
 may achieve and cherish a just, and a lasting peace, among ourselves, 
 and with all nations.
 
 
 --
                                                                      ___
 bill rea                                                            (o o)
 -------------------------------------------------------------------w--u--w---
 | bill rea, computer services centre, | e-mail   b.rea@csc.canterbury.ac.nz |
 | university of canterbury,           | or     cctr114@csc.canterbury.ac.nz |
 | christchurch, new zealand           | phone (03)-642-331 fax (03)-642-999 |
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 