
 meta-exegesis: conviction of sin,  part ii
 
 let me return to the question, stipulating that paul meant his use of
 _arseonkoitai_ to refer more or less exactly to the levitical prohibition
 of male-male sex.  in order to bring out the problems most clearly, i'll
 also stipulate (what i think is far less plausible) that paul coined the
 term for this usage.  the question i want to turn to is what that would
 mean for paul's readers and for later christians.  this should be shorter
 than my last note, as we will see that this question rapidly confronts us
 with some of the major divisions within christ's body, and i am not trying
 to open the gates for flames across any of the terrible chasms that
 separate any of us from our fellow christians.  my own biases (loosely
 characterizable as "liberal") will be evident, but i am not grinding an
 axe here, so much as trying to get all parties to see that it may be hard
 to reach "closure" when the issues involved strike at the heart of what we
 each, in our own different ways, see as crucial to the gospel of christ.
 
 so; stipulating paul's intent, the immediate question is: how can his
 readers understand this intent?  and following on that question, there is
 a second one: what is our proper action if we *do* manage to understand him?
 
 since paul gives not a single clue about his meaning in the text of 1st
 corinthians, there are two "positive" answers and one "negative" to this
 question:
 
 +	a.  paul (or apollos, or someone) in the apostolic community has
 	    conveyed to the corinthians the then-traditional jewish condem-
 	    nation of homosexual behavior, and paul expects them to be
 	    sufficiently well-tutored by this tradition that he needs no
 	    futher explanation.  [i should note that there is no evidence
 	    in the letter, or in 2 corinthians for such a supposition :-)]
 
 +	b.  the spirit will teach us what paul means (or, if not paul,
 	    what god means "behind" paul's inspired word-choice.)
 
 -	c.  we *don't* know, and cannot guess to within any better pre-
 	    cision here than, for comparison, in the parallel use by paul,
 	    in the same passage of the word  _pleonektai_ ("those who have
 	    more" -- if you think that _areseonkoitai_ is "obvious" from
 	    its roots, try cutting your teeth on *this* word!  the neb
 	    translates it as "grabbers") or even _methusoi_ ("drunkards"
 	    -- at least this has the advantage of being a common insult,
 	    so that at least there is *some* hint as to its meaning!)
 
 the three positions more or less -- if i can be allowed some exaggeration
 for the sake of argument -- define a classical catholic attitude towards
 tradition, one form of protestant _sola scriptura_, and a liberal/critical
 demand for evidence.  all three positions have strengths and weaknesses.
 
 _ad_ a:	it is unquestionable that the gospel was preached in and by the
 	community of christ's disciples and their successors, and that
 	our nt scripture itself emerges from this communal tradition.
 	but it's also the case that we know little or nothing about this
 	tradition until almost a century after paul, which is to say that
 	we have access to the tradition only after several generations of
 	possibly confused transmission.  the scripture is itself our only
 	documentation of the tradition in the critical era.
 
 _ad_ b:	if we are not born of water and spirit [to revert to john in an
 	attempt to explain paul :-)], then we have no more hope of under-
 	standing the gospel than nicodemus had; neither the traditions of
 	men nor the vain elevation of our own reason can prevent the spirit
 	from blowing where it will -- the paraclete is a kamikaze.  but
 	the downside of protestant belief in the efficacy of the spirit
 	as our guide in scripture is that the wing of protestantism that
 	takes this most seriously is also the most fragmented over divergent
 	understanding supposedly derived from the "clear" word of god.
 
 		[note: classical lutheran, calvinist and anglican thought
 		constrains scripture to be read *within* tradition, even
 		while reserving judgment against tradition out of scripture;
 		the more bizarre forms of "i will read scripture my way"
 		are primarily a fringe aspect of "cultic" protestantism.]
 
 	the main problem with this approach is that there is apparently no
 	means for one person to convey to another what that one may feel
 	*is* teaching received from the spirit; and history shows incredible
 	conflict between christians on this point, each in his own mind
 	"convinced" that he is led by the spirit.  no one can seriously
 	urge point b without some sense of its potential for setting christian
 	against christian.  to what purpose?
 
 _ad_ c:	the critical approach has the distinct advantage that when it can
 	reach a conclusion, it can lay out the data in a way which is open
 	to all.  the weakness is an obvious corollary: this is not usually
 	possible. :-)
 
 	[if i may say a word here, out of my own already acknowledged bias;
 	one complaint against critical methodology is that it "dissolves"
 	faith -- but surely a "faith" that cannot honestly face the evalu-
 	ation of evidence has problems which mere theology is helpless to
 	address.]
 
 anyway, there is a serious and unfortunate possibility of schism between
 "liberal" and "conservative" positions, mostly on the basis of extreme
 zealots of positions b and c.  a catholic sense of authority and tradition
 tends to constrain arguments of b contra c to secondary position, so that
 despite horrendous strains rome is not as likely to find these issues as
 ultimately divisive as the protestant world will.  and anglicans will (i
 predict) muddle through on the _via media_, attempting to give each position
 its due, but no more than its due. 
 
 second question.  suppose tradition tells us, and lots of "spiritual"
 christians tell us, and critical thought at least admits as possible,
 that paul is refering to a flat, universal levitical prohibition against
 male-male sex.  what then?  again, we can abdicate our personal responsi-
 bility to tradition, and let it dictate the answer.  but it's precisely
 where inherited traditions are not questioned that they're most dangerous.
 
 we have examples of christ questioning the pharisees and their use of
 tradition (despite his urging, in matthew 23:2 that we are to heed them).
 we have examples of peter, and more radically still paul, jettisoning the
 traditions that they were led by the spirit to call into question.  jesus
 and peter and paul do not so much "throw out" tradition as subject it to
 radical criticism, on a couple of very basic grounds:
 
      "the weightier demands of the law: justice and mercy and good faith"
 							(matthew 23:23)
 and  "on these two commandments [love god & neighbor] hand the whole law,
       and the prophets, also."
 							(matthew 22:40)
 
 if there is a fundamental (because derived from christ) validity in the
 challenge to *some* traditions, a validity that led the first generation
 to go so far as to waive application of the torah to gentile converts
 (vastly beyond anything that is directly deducible from jesus' reported
 words and deeds), it signifies to me a certain failure of the imagination
 to *postulate* that *only* the traditions that we have specific challenges
 against are in fact open to challenge.
 
 all traditions passed *through* men are traditions *of* men.  that god may
 lead us even so, that these traditions are a source of our spiritual
 instruction i will freely grant.  but tradition is inherently human, and
 inherently corruptible (and given the fall, corrupt).  nothing in it is
 immune to challenge, when the spirit shows us a failure in justice, mercy
 and good faith.  nothing may ultimately stand unless it does follow from
 love of god and love of neighbor.
 
 i am perfectly willing to grant that i could be blind to my own sin.  that
 the spirit may have taught another what she refuses to teach me (or i am
 too dense to learn).  that tradition *might* have value here.  but what i
 *know* of tradition is that on one occasion, some superstitious christians
 appealed to justinian after an earthquake in asia minor, and scapegoated
 "sodomites" as the "cause" of the earthquake, so that legislation was
 passed making homosexual behavior a capital offense.  if that is in
 accord with the gospel of christ, then i am no christian.  that is human
 tradition at its most hateful and vicious.  and i see nothing all that much
 different in all the unbidden eruptions onto usenet of people who are quick
 to condemn but slow to understand.  if that is the leading of the spirit,
 then i want no part of it.  but what i have found in obedience to the lord
 is that i am, myself, totally dependent on the witness of other christians,
 for the truth that lives in the body of christ.
 
 and i say to all who doubt that gay christianity is from god what gamaliel
 said to doubting pharisees who would have suppressed the earliest church:
 
 	"be careful how you deal with these people...  if this enterprise,
 	this movement of theirs, is of human origin it will break up of
 	its own accord; but if it does in fact come from god you will not
 	only be unable to destroy them, but you might find yourselves
 	fighting against god."
 							[acts 5:36...39] 
 
 all i ask is that you listen to your traditions, and read your scriptures
 with a mind and soul open to the spirit, and to the past history of our
 first christian witnesses' willingness to challenge tradition and other
 readings of scripture -- though read with all the authority of scribes and
 rabbis -- and a submission to the declaration that all must depend on the
 love of god and neighbor.  then, study the evidence; learn the history of
 christians oppressing christians out of their traditions and eagerness to
 judge where jesus and paul tell us not to judge.  and let the witness of
 the spirit in the lives of your fellow christians -- including those who
 are not of your preference in theology -- guide you towards god's truth.
 -- 
 michael l. siemon		i say "you are gods, sons of the
 mls@panix.com			most high, all of you; nevertheless
     - or -			you shall die like men, and fall
 mls@ulysses.att..com		like any prince."   psalm 82:6-7
 
 [there's a certain ambiguity in your discussion of position (a), as to
 whether you're speaking of tradition in paul's time or ours.  i think
 there are two ways to use tradition.  one is to say that when paul and
 his readers share a tradition, it makes sense to interpret his words
 in the context of that shared tradition.  that's what makes me think
 that these arguments over words turn out to be silly.  we know that
 paul came out of a background that was rather puritanical on sex.
 everything else he says on sex is consistent with that background.
 the tone of his remarks on homosexuality in rom 1 is consistent with
 that background.  even if the words in the sin lists aren't the most
 general terms for homosexual activity (and it seems to me that there's
 some evidence that they are not), they are just one more piece of
 evidence for something we would probably be willing to believe with no
 evidence at all -- that paul shares the common jewish rejection of
 homosexuality.
 
 but when you identify (a) with the catholic position, that's rather a
 horse of a different color.  the catholic position involves a
 continuing church tradition.  arguments specific to that tradition
 might be (1) we can get guidance on how to interpret paul's original
 meaning from tradition, e.g. the way the church fathers interpreted
 him, and (2) we gain confidence that his prohibitions still apply in
 our time because of the universal judgement of the church between his
 time and ours.  i think this is a somewhat different use of tradition.
 a radical protestant might be willing to use known 1st cent.
 tradition to illuminate paul's original meaning, but not use the
 catholic position to answer the question of what our own attitude to
 homosexuality should be.
 
 --clh]
 