
 in <may.13.02.30.39.1993.1545@geneva.rutgers.edu> noye@midway.uchicago.edu (vera shanti noyes) writes:
 
 >in article <may.11.02.39.05.1993.28328@athos.rutgers.edu> carlson@ab24.larc.nasa.gov (ann carlson) writes:
 
 >[bible verses ag./ used ag. homosexuality deleted]
 
 >>anyone who thinks being gay and christianity are not compatible should 
 >>check out dignity, integrity, more light presbyterian churches, affirmation,
 >>mcc churches, etc.  meet some gay christians, find out who they are, pray
 >>with them, discuss scripture with them, and only *then* form your opinion.
 
 >also check out the episcopal church -- although by no means all
 >episcopalians are sympathetic to homosexual men and women, there
 >certainly is a fairly large percentage (in my experience) who are.  i
 >am good friends with an episcopalian minister who is ordained and
 >living in a monogamous homosexual relationship.  this in no way
 >diminishes his ability to minister -- in fact he has a very
 >significant ministry with the gay and lesbian association of his
 >community, as well as a very significant aids ministry.
 
 this may sound argumentative, but do the pro-homosexual crowd give the
 same support to church members that are involved in incestuous relationships?
 if we do a little substitution above, we get:
 
 "although by no means all episcopalians are sympathetic to incestuous
 men and women, there certainly is a fairly larget percentage (in my
 experience) who are.  i am good friends with an episcopalian minister
 who is ordained and living in a monogamous incestual relationship.  this
 in no way diminishes his ability to minister -- in fact he has a very
 significant ministry with the incest association of his community..."
 
 do the same standards apply?  if not, why not?  and while we're in the
 ballpark, what about bestiality?  i can't recall offhand if there are
 any direct statements in the bible regarding sex with animals; does that
 activity have more or less a sanction?
 
 please avoid responses such as "you're taking this to extremes".  i would
 guess that a disproportionate percentage of the inerrant bible community
 views homosexual acts with distaste in the same manner that society at
 large views incest.
 
 -- 
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 scott cokely       | (714) 833-4760   scott.cokely@nb.rockwell.com		    
 "they came for the davidians, but i did not speak up because
  i was not a davidian.  then they came for me..."  opinions expressed
 are mine and do not represent those of rockwell.
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 [ obviously you can replace homosexuality in the above statement by
 anything from murder to sleeping late.  that doesn't mean that the
 same people would accept those substitutions.  the question is whether
 the relationships involved do in fact form an appropriate vehicle to
 represent christ's relationship to humanity.  this is at least
 *partly* an empirical question.  
 
 in some cases types of human relationship have been rejected because
 over time they always seem to lead to trouble.  i think that's the
 case with slavery.  one can argue that in theory, if you follow paul's
 guidelines, it's possible to have christian slaveholders.  but in
 practice, over a period of time, most people came to the conclusion
 that nobody can really have that degree of control over another and
 not abuse it.  
 
 the message you were responding to was asking you to look at the
 results from christian communities that endorse homosexuality.  (note:
 christian homosexuals, not people you see on the news advocating some
 extremist agenda).  you may not want to base your decision completely
 on that kind of observation, but i would argue that it's at least
 relevant.  you can't answer the request by asking why you shouldn't
 look at the incest association, because in fact there is no such
 association.  if there were, it might be reasonable for you to look at
 it too.  of course that doesn't mean that the results of all such
 examinations would necessarily come out the same way.  part of why
 there aren't groups pushing all possible relaxed standards is that
 some of them do produce obviously bad results.
 
 --clh]
 