
 
  i have been studying the bible now for about a year.  i love it,
 but i am not very familiar with the different denominations, or
 traditions, or common beliefs of various christian groups.
 i have heard various people (outside this news group)
 describe *idols* such as power, money, material 
 possessions etc.  these things are worshiped in some sense i 
 suppose, but i never really gave idols much thought.  until now...  
 
 i have been reading the postings in this news group (which i 
 just found a few days ago), and i have a question...  first, i'm
 not trying to question anyone's belief or try to push my views
 on anyone else (i haven't been at this long enough to have
 any views other than i cannot get to heaven by being good,
 i must understand that christ bore my sins on the cross so that
 i could be saved and i need to repent, i.e. realize that
 every time i sin, i might as well stick a sharp stick in
 christ's side because he took the punishment for my sins,
 when he died on the cross).
 
 in my studies, mary never really comes up.  i know who she is, 
 but that's about it.  it seems to me that a statue of mary 
 could be considered an idol?  do people pray to statues of mary?
 
 it sounds like educated christians (more educated than myself
 i'm sure) believe mary was sinless?  wow...  i hoped to spend
 the summer convincing myself (one way or the other) about
 tongues (i'm reading "charismatic chaos").  i guess i'll study
 tongues in parallel with reading this news group.  any help you can 
 give me will be appreciated.
 
     -------------------------------------------
 
 [i don't think the issue is so much that people are more educated than
 you (though it may well be that they are), as that they come from a
 different tradition than yours.
 
 this is a discussion between catholics and protestants.  catholics
 generally believe that mary was sinless.  protestants do not.  the
 issue comes down to different sources of authority.  protestants
 generally limit themselves to the bible as a source of doctrine.
 since this isn't in the bible (except in passages that no one would
 understand in this way if they didn't already believe it), protestants
 don't accept it.  catholics see continuing revelation through the
 church, though they believe the results are consistent with the bible.
 
 i interpret your posting, not as a call for yet another argument about
 whether the catholic marian devotions are idolatry (an argument i am
 not prepared to see newed here), but as a sign of being interested in
 learning about traditions other than your own.  catholics are of
 course a major one, but by no means the only one.  i generally
 consider the major traditions to be catholic, orthodox, and
 various subsets of protestantism.  within protestantism, it's a matter
 of how finely you want to cut things.  these days i think the major
 division is between those who accept biblical inerrancy and those
 who don't.  there are also a number of major historical traditions,
 but in recent decades distinctions are tending to blur.  i'd 
 identify the major protestant traditions as:
 
   lutheran, reformed, anglican (they're sort of halfway between
   catholic and protestant), wesleyan, baptist, holiness, pentecostal,
   church of christ
 
 but there are a number of others.  historical distinctions tend not to
 be so important among the liberal churches anymore, and i think
 current trends in society and the church are also tending to make
 conservatives seen themselves as allies from a general "evangelical"
 perspective.  but differences among these various traditions are still
 quite marked.
 
 i think the best introduction to these issues is to read a good book
 on church history.  anyone who wants to understand the church really
 needs to understand how we got where we are now.  a church history
 will normally show you where each of these traditions came from, and
 give a feeling for their nature.  unfortunately i'm away from my
 library at the moment, so i don't have anything specific to recommend.
 
 --clh]
 