
 
                         -= pastortalk =-
 
   a weekly dialogue with a local pastor on the news of the day
 
                       by carl (gene) wilkes 
 
                        startext: mc344578 
                      compuserve: 70423,600
                        internet: 70423.600@compuserve.com
 
                    -= this week's thoughts =-
 
 last week the supreme court refused without comment to hear an
 appeal by rensselaer, in, school officials desiring the
 distribution of bibles in their public schools (rel65, 5/21). a
 lower court had banned the local gideons, an international bible-
 distribution group, from passing out bibles to fifth-graders. the
 aclu's barry lynn was quoted as saying that the court's action
 protected the "religious neutrality of our public schools." he also
 said that schools must serve students of "all faiths and none."
 schools were not to be a "bazaar where rival religious groups
 compete for converts," according to lynn.
 
 several gideons, men who are responsible for putting bibles in
 hospitals and hotels, are members of our church. they tell of
 similar stories where they are only allowed to distribute bibles on
 sidewalks around the schools, but cannot go inside the schools.
 they tell of mild harassment by parents who do not want their
 children receiving a bible from a stranger. they are willing to
 continue their work at a distance, but find the school's position
 somewhat disheartening.
 
 i understand rationally and logically the court's position. and, i
 can see the sense of fairness for all groups. but, on the other
 hand, when does "neutrality" become "nihilism?" when does plurality
 turn into no position at all?
 
 i see a couple of ironies here. one is that we can pass out condoms
 but not bibles in our schools. think on that one for a moment.
 
 the other is that while we are seeking "religious neutrality" in
 our schools, countries like russia--who, by the way, practiced
 "religious neutrality" for the past seventy years--are making the 
 bible part of their public school curriculum. when i was in st.
 petersburg in march, the church we worked with had trained over 100
 public school teachers to teach the bible, and the government had
 requested hundreds more! i recently heard a medical doctor who is
 president of the gideon chapter in moscow tell how they are eagerly
 invited to the university of moscow to distribute bibles to the
 students and are given class time to explain its contents. i
 remember seeing a photograph of this doctor holding a bible and
 speaking to the university students standing under a statue of
 lenin. now, that's ironic!
 
 i admit two things: 1) we are a pluralistic society, and all faiths
 have equal footing. this is what our country was founded on. 2) to
 allow every group on school grounds could create a bazaar-like
 atmosphere. each city must work to be inclusive of all religions
 and provide a hearing for them. 3)--i know i said two--the vitality
 of religious faith is not dependent upon whether or not the public
 arena acknowledges it as valid.
 
 however--and you knew this was coming--i believe, disallowing the
 distribution of the bible by law-abiding, caring adults in our
 schools only signals once again our culture's movement away from a
 singular base from which we as individuals and as a nation can make
 moral and ethical decisions.
 
 what do you think? 
 
                          -= mail box =-
 (let me know if you do not want me to print your letter or your
 name.)
 
 good column [re: time coverstory about teen sexuality]; i agree
 with moral education from home, but some homes don't have the kinds
 of morals i want taught.  one family i worked with smoked dope as
 their primary family activity.  another acted like incest was ok.
 families, no matter where they are, are often a lot sicker than
 we'd like to believe.
 
 from: john hightower, mc 407602
 
 john,
 
 i agree that the "home" ain't what it used to be, and some homes
 are not the place to learn value-based sexuality. i still believe
 that this is where the church can come into play. i know, those
 families you speak of may not come to a church to seek information,
 but the help does not need to be in a church building...i believe
 that the youth from the families you mentioned will probably
 disregard the value-free information at school, too.
 
 (#) writer's note: the views of this column do not necessarily
 reflect the views of members of or the church, legacy drive baptist
 church, plano, tx.
 