
 
   ok, let me see if i can get all this out concisely.  i am on an
 information gathering venture regarding the various expressions of
 christianity/churches there are.  
         my husband and i come from very different, but completely
 christian backgrounds.  i was a lutheran when i met him and he was a
 born and raised church of christ member.  at first i agreed with a lot
 of what the c of c was about, i wanted to move from the liturgical
 based lutheran church to something a little more biblical based.
 however over the last year, i've been regretting changing to the
 church of christ for a number of reasons - for one thing i am not a
 fundamentalist and believe that a few things in the bible are
 socio-cultural in nature and don't relate to the christian doctrine.
 one of my sorest spots is the role of women.  i believe that through
 mary and other women, chris validated women as worthy disciples - but
 in the c of c the writings of paul are taken without exception and i
 am told that i am not an equal partner in my marriage but the lesser
 member, i am to submit to my husband in all things (if i hear that
 verse one more time....) and i am not to take an active role in
 anything which might be construed as putting me in authority over men
 (ie leading prayers, conducting bible studies etc).   the last straw
 was when the elders at our church came down on one of our college
 groups because it was all-women and they wanted a man to lead the
 study.
 also my husband and i really resent the way everyone at our church
 feels that if you aren't a conservative republican - you aren't a real
 christian (i got told that nobody who voted for clinton should call
 themselves a christian).  hence we are subjected during the service to
 long prayers calling for things we flatly dont agree with.  we are
 also don't agree with the c of c's dread of any new "movement" being
 led by the young people.
 
 so, we have been church hunting with no success.  i want a reasonably
 biblical based church where women are viewed as whole people no matter
 what their calling ( c of c really looked down on career women).
 christopher is looking for a church with deeply rooted religious
 convictions, with adult baptism and a church where the members still
 bring their bibles to service.
 
 we are so confused here and we're drifting around trying to find a
 place where we both feel loved and can express our faith honestly and
 without reservation.  if anyone can point us in a direction we'd be
 thrilled!
 i'm afraid that it will be very hard for me to go back to c of c and
 even harder for me to stay churchless for long.
 
 any responses would be welcome
 
 
 the diel family
 
 [i would think somewhere in the baptist spectrum you might find what
 you're looking for.  however the issue is probably more one of the
 flavor of the specific local churches in your area than the
 denomination -- baptists cover quite a spectrum.  adult baptism sort
 of narrows your choices on the more liberal end of the spectrum.
 historically that's been associated with movements that have the
 character you're trying to avoid.  --clh]
 