
 hello.
 i just like to share this rosary and other prayer propagation
 practice we do in my country.  i am not sure if it is going on
 also here in the us or any other country.  in all these 4 1/2
 yrs. i've been here in illinois, usa, i have not encountered
 it.  may i just call it "traveling fatima" since i don't know
 of an exact translation of what we call it in my native language.
 
 for certain regions in a district in a town or city, an image/
 statue of our lady of fatima is moved from one home (originating
 from owner) to another.  this will stay with that family for
 one (1) week and this family is required to pray the rosary and
 other prayers (prayer sheets accompany the image) to our lady
 of fatima.  the move will be like a simple procession of folks
 picking up the image from its current 'home' after 'departing'
 prayers and proceeds to move it to the next home which has the
 prior notification about the move.  there will be the 'receiving'
 prayers at the next home to welcome our lady of fatima image
 there.  it does not have to be that only members of the family
 in that home who must pray to the image.  they may invite others
 (or others/friends can invite themselves in ;^)) to participate
 during prayer time in that 'new' home everyday for one week.
 this image is moved from one family to the next within the
 bounded region of that district, until it goes back to the owner
 of the image.
 
 this is probably going on around there (philippines) right now
 (or somebody correct me when exactly since i forgot) and every
 year, this is part of our devotion to our lady of fatima.
 
 it has been easy to facilitate this back home because it is more
 likely that your next door neighbor is a catholic and the image
 then is just moved next door.
 
 i am thinking of starting something like it in the village where
 my sister and her family lives.  most of our friends and neighbors
 there are catholics and practicing ones.
 
 i'd like to know if there are any state/community laws that this 
 practice will violate, whatsoever, before i go for it.  thank you 
 for any comments or help about this matter.
 
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 -marida (maridai@ecs.comm.mot.com)
 