POLICE are probing a cyber troll who called for First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to be “hung from a tree”.
Golf writer Fraser Paterson made the comments about Nicola Sturgeon during a Twitter conversation and wrote: “Save Bute House, but hang Sturgeon. A tree in Chltte Sq Gardens will do.”
The 43-year-old was bombarded with abuse for his offensive tweet with several social media users threatening to report him to the cops.
 

Just hours later, the 43-year-old accepted his comments were “over the white line and unprofessional” but failed to apologise.
He added: “I mean no harm to her.”
 
My 'hang Sturgeon' comment was over the white line and unprofessional of me. I mean no harm to her

When approached at his Edinburgh home, Paterson sheepishly said: “I understand that, I appreciate that, it’s fine,” but had no further comment give at the time.
Paterson, who describes himself as a freelance journalist and history buff, currently works as a tour guide for Eat Walk Edinburgh.
He responded to a tweet which claimed there “would be a revolution if Salmond even came close to being appointed DPM”.
Paterson responded: “I’ll be the signing up on the first day Ian. Save Bute House, but hang Sturgeon. A tree in Chltte Sq Gardens will do. #SNPout”
Charlotte Square Gardens is outside the First Minister’s official residence in Edinburgh’s New Town, Bute House.
 

Paterson also boasts of his “people skills” on his LinkedIn page who also deals in antiques and collectables.
Twitter users and SNP supporters were unconvinced by Paterson’s attempted cover up.
Iain Taylor wrote: “If that’s supposed to be an apology, you need a refresher course on common decency.”
Lynne Anderson added: “Shame on you for writing such a thing and shame on you for lack of real apology.”
David-Alln wrote: “Is that supposed to be an apology? Doesn’t read like one. Sucks to get caught
out doesn’t it. Spotlights on you now.”
JJ Bruce commented: “So you’ll apologise publicly then? Although a bit late as Police Scotland informed and hopefully visiting soon.”
A Police Scotland spokeswoman said: “We can confirm that we are aware of the tweets and will look into the matter to establish any criminality.”
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

