A CRICKET club captain and former policeman is insisting: “I’m no racist.”
Shazad Rafiq,29, leads Prestwick Cricket Club out to bat.
But this week he denied calling a woman a “white English b******.”
He was running a chicken takeaway in Ayr at the time, the town’s sheriff court heard.
And he had encountered an ex member of staff and his wife at Booker Cash and Carry when there was a flare-up.
Rafiq admitted shouting and swearing using vile family sex insults in Punjabi.
And Pamela Qadeer, 35, insists she was racially abused.
Mrs Qadeer, from Dailly, said: “I didn’t like that and I had my daughter on my arm. He was aggressive and intimidating, right in my face. Mr Rafiq was very wound up and I wanted the police called as I found it racist.”
More news from the courts
 

Sheriff Desmond Leslie heard the argument between Mrs Qadeer’s husband Muhammad, 31, and Rafiq flared over a &pound;980 debt.
But Mrs Qadeer left the dock in tears as defence lawyer Derek Pettigrew said: “You and your husband were abusing Mr Rafiq, that’s the bottom line.
“You wrote a police statement saying you were not racially offended by it.”
But giving evidence shopkeeper Muhammad Qadeer said: “He called my missus a white b******, I was raging, I was angry.”
Iain Gray, prosecuting, asked: “Did you perceive it to be a racist remark?”
Mr Qadeer replied: “Of course.”
In cross examination, Mr Pettigrew suggested he was giving as good as he got.
And added: “You didn’t mention the racist abuse in your police statement.”
PC Colin Carson confirmed there was no racist aspect to the Qadeer’s complaint.
Rafiq, a former Strathclyde Police officer, denies uttering threats and making racial remarks inside the Ayr cash and carry on May 4 last year.
Giving evidence he claimed Mr Qadeer - who worked for him at the Chicken Shack - was “laughing” and “making a mockery” of leaving him in the lurch.
Rafiq said: “And Pamela was insulting me and actually hurting my feelings.
“There was no racist abuse.”
Without prompting or any elaboration, referring to Pamela Qadeer, he said he was “well aware of her illicit affairs within the Dailly area.”
The trial continues.
 
