A COCAINE-crazed killer raped two prostitutes beside another’s body – as his little son slept next door.
Twisted dad-of-two Steven Mathieson abused the terrified women next to the corpse of Luciana Maurer, 23, who he had stabbed 44 times.
He then calmly snorted cocaine, accused one girl of “not doing your job properly” and chillingly told them he knew he faced years in jail for murder.
Fearing for their lives, the women fled naked into the night when the killer was distracted.
The former car salesman had told them: “I’ve done this to show my wife something.”
The High Court in Glasgow was told the horror unfolded on December 4 last year while Mathieson’s partner Susanne Thogersen was on a night out.
The couple’s four-year-old son slept through the atrocities in their home in a quiet part of Falkirk, while their other boy was staying with grandparents.
Mathieson, 38, who had built up huge drug debts, had kept his use of phone sex lines secret from Susanne.
And when she headed out for her night out, he called three prostitutes to the house.
Yesterday, he admitted the murder of mum-of-one Luciana and the rape of the two other women, aged 26 and 22. He will be jailed for life and his minimum term behind bars will be set when he is sentenced next month.
Romanian Luciana had only arrived in Scotland from London days before she died.
The court was told before the escorts arrived, Mathieson texted his girlfriend saying: “Have a good night. Love you.”
Luciana arrived first around 11pm but within minutes, Mathieson stabbed her repeatedly in a drug frenzy, including cutting her throat.
 

He then sent a text to his partner saying: “Sorry xx”.
Luciana had several defensive injuries suggesting she had tried in vain to fight off her powerfully built attacker.
Shortly afterwards, the two other women arrived and saw Mathieson sitting casually on his couch.
Upstairs, they were confronted with a scene of horror, prosecutor Jane Farquharson said.
She explained: “He put on the light and hung back at the door while the women walked in.
“As soon as they entered the bedroom, they saw the deceased, lying on her back and on top of the double bed.”
Crazed Mathieson then grabbed two knives before blocking the door.
Both women froze in terror and one begged Mathieson to let them go – but he grabbed their phones and flung them away.
He tormented the women by stroking them with the knives and threatened to kill them if they did not bow to his sick demands.
Farquharson told the cout: “He told both to remove their clothing and dance for him.
“In fear of what he might do and, with the body of the deceased lying on the bed in front of them, each did as they were told.”
Mathieson went on to rape the pair – including attacking one beside Luciana.
They were trapped in the bedroom for 10 minutes before he ordered them downstairs. Once there, Mathieson continued to humiliate the petrified women and raped them again.
Farquharson said: “He told them that his son was asleep in the bedroom upstairs.
“He appeared to have an awareness of what he had done advising both, ‘I’m going to be many years in prison because I killed that girl. I’ve done this to show my wife something.’”
The women seized their chance when Mathieson, thinking his partner had returned, went to a window.
They fled naked to a nearby flat, escaping the killer’s attempts to catch them.
 

Farquharson said: “Both stated their thanks and asked for help. They were crying and appeared to be terrified.”
After the escape, Mathieson dialled 999 and said: “I’ve been high on drugs and killed a prostitute.
“Tell the officers I am not aggressive. I had two other girls, but I’ve let them go.”
 
When police arrived, Mathieson went down on his knees and held out his hands for them to arrest him.
Around 2am, Mathieson’s partner arrived back, having enjoyed her night out.
Farquharson added: “On seeing the police presence, she was described as hysterical.”
The hearing yesterday was interrupted at one point as Mathieson began crying hysterically and loudly retching as if he was going to be sick.
The court heard Mathieson started attending Cocaine Anonymous last spring, having built up a large debt.
His girlfriend was not aware of the drug habit until finding out about the cash he owed.
His advocate, Donald Findlay QC, said that before his shocking crimes, Mathieson had been of “impeccable character”.
Judge Lord Bannatyne deferred sentencing until May 7 at the High Court in Livingston.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

