 TRADE unionists and former workers branded &shy;Remploy a “disgrace” yesterday as  they &shy;celebrated their 70th birthday. 
The GMB union blasted the employment firm’s “wholly &shy;inappropriate” and “premature” celebrations as hundreds of ex-staff remain &shy;unemployed.
 Remploy, who help those with disabilities get jobs, were forced to close all but three factories across the UK in 2013 following Con-Dems cuts – wiping out all five of their Scotland bases. 
 More than 238 Scots staff were affected and a survey carried out by GMB last year found that one in four are still unemployed nearly two years later. 
In January, figures released by the Department of Work and Pensions showed that of the 1507 Remploy workers they have contact with across the UK, only 774 had managed to find a new job.

But yesterday, offices around the country celebrated their 70th anniversary on their first day away from Government ownership after &shy;partnering with healthcare giants Maximus.
 

The US firm have taken over from ATOS to carry out the controversial Work Capability Assessments for the DWP. Phil Brannan, a former factory worker and shop steward at &shy;Glasgow’s former Springburn Remploy factory, branded the &shy;celebrations “despicable”.
The 63-year-old said: “This is an absolute disgrace and kick in the teeth to every disabled person they made redundant.
“I can’t believe that they would have the sheer gall to brag about all the work they’ve done.
 “It’s an insult to ex-employees and I can’t believe they would treat us with such contempt.” Phil, who has three disabilities and was laid off in 2013, added: “I’m still in touch with a lot of people from the Remploy &shy;factories and know a lot of them are never going to work again.” 


Regional secretary for GMB, Harry Donaldson said: “I think it’s wholly inappropriate at this point in time to be giving these celebrations as if Remploy have been an absolute success.”
 
 
A Remploy spokesman said the latest figures available to them showed more former workers in employment since January.
He said: “Remploy are committed to helping disabled people into mainstream &shy;employment – rather than working in segregated factories.
“Our 70th anniversary &shy;celebrates our support for &shy;disabled people over the years.
“Latest figures show that 199 jobs have been found for disabled former factory employees and 150 out of 238 made redundant are currently in work.”
 Try our quick news quiz below: 

