FROM top footballers to Texas oil barons, meet the unlikely tailor who is dressing some of the world’s sharpest men.
Former St Andrews student Carl Emery, who stumbled into tailoring by chance, provides bespoke suits to many of the globe’s richest people.
Footballers Wayne Rooney and Rio Ferdinand are clients, as is ex-midfielder and TV presenter Robbie Savage.
Snooker player Shaun Murphy, horse trainer Paul Nicholls and Corrie actor Ryan Thomas are big fans too.
Carl, 36, who studied economics and management at St Andrews, also has Texas millionaires and Belarussian oligarchs on his books.
With many of the Sunday Times rich list queuing up for his dapper suits, the clothier, who is based in Alderley Edge, Cheshire, is becoming as popular as the tailors on London’s Savile Row.
Carl, who travels all over the world fitting clients and hand-delivering their finished suits, even got football pundit Savage to star in one of his ads.
He said: “My suits are popular with famous faces from the worlds of sports and entertainment. A lot of the top-flight footballers live in Alderley Edge so we are on their doorstep.
“We were thinking up ideas for an advert for the 2014 World Cup and a designer sketched a guy with long hair posing in a white suit as the Christ the Redeemer statue in Brazil.
“The drawing looked the spitting image of Robbie Savage. By coincidence, he was coming in that day to get measured and agreed to do it, which was magic.
“I love doing Robbie’s suits as he is always looking for something a little bit different for television. He doesn’t like to wear the same outfit too often so he puts a lot of business our way.”
Keen shinty player Carl added: “We also make Wayne Rooney’s suits so I’ve been in his house a few times for fittings. He’s a lot leaner than you would think and a terribly nice guy.
“Rio Ferdinand, snooker player Sean Murphy and Edinburgh rugby star Alasdair Dickinson are also clients, as is Aberdeen player Andrew Driver.
“It’s great when you see the stars photographed wearing your suits or appearing on TV. It’s a brilliant job.”
 

Carl – who is married to beauty therapist Leah – makes several trips a year to Texas, where his suits are hot property and account for 20 to 25 per cent of his business.
He said: “One of my clients here owns an oil valve manufacturing plant in the States and recommended me. His US friends can’t get enough of our suits. They like the Britishness of the service and love the whole James Bond look.
“I have about 120 clients out there. I fly out, take measurements and go back out five weeks later to fit the suits and get the needed alterations made.
“I also go to Minsk in Belarus, where the oligarchs also love the English gentleman look.”
Carl, who uses some of the world’s finest materials in his garments, has three billionaires and quite a few millionaires on his books.
He said: “The most expensive suit we make is around &pound;3000. Prices range from &pound;750 upwards.
“I have worked with a lot of people on the Sunday Times rich list and they are not stupid – they want something reasonable. You do not want a suit that is &pound;10,000 and then are too scared to wear.”
But he added: “I was once asked to make a suit from the wool of the vicuna. These llama-like creatures live in the Andes, thousands of metres above sea level, and their wool can only be sheared once every three years or so. The material alone cost &pound;1000 and the gentleman paid &pound;5000 for the jacket. We had to be so careful with it.”
Carl, who is planning to bring his bespoke business to Scotland, relies heavily on Scottish fabrics and textiles.
He said: “We get our cashmere from Johnstons of Elgin, tweed from Hunters of Brora, as well as Harris tweed and other luxury cloth from Holland &amp; Sherry in Peebles.
“I’m looking forward to expanding the business into Scotland as it is an untapped market.”
Carl, whose mum Linda, 64, dad Bruce, 59, and brother Wesley, 37, help run the firm, admits bespoke tailoring is not a career he envisaged for himself.
He said: “When I was at St Andrews, I was always coming up with business ideas. I think I was destined to be an entrepreneur but I never dreamed I would one day find success in tailoring.
“After uni, I worked as a salesman for a company who supplied chair and bath lifts and then for a high-end kitchen firm.
“One day, a customer told me he had a tailor who came to his home and measured him for his suits because he didn’t have time to go clothes shopping.
“It was a light-bulb moment. I knew that’s what I wanted to do and I got a job with international bespoke tailor company Tom James and started measuring clients in their homes and offices.
“I realised there was a lot of money to be made and decided to start up my own business, Harris And Howard, in 2010.
“I bought a shop near my home in Alderley Edge. I employ a team of dedicated tailors who do all the cutting and sewing as, unfortunately, I could not even sew a button back on, never mind make a suit. It’s a real family business.
“We make 20 suits a week but hope to double that within the next few years. Most clients average two suits a year but there is one who gets a new one every month. It’s an industry on the up.”
Carl, who provided suits for several of the guests at Prince William’s wedding in 2011, has one person he is desperate to have as a client – David Beckham.
He said: “The Beckhams’ old house is just 30 seconds from my shop but they moved just before I started up. He is such a fashion icon and the ultimate suit model. I suppose it could still happen.”
