
THE couple hoping to play host to this year’s T in the Park last night urged protesters and councillors not to silence Scotland’s biggest music festival.
The Roberts family have owned Strathallan Castle for more than a century and Jamie and Debs Roberts are on tenterhooks over an application with their local council to relocate the event to the estate.
They claim a negative decision would lead to nearby Auchterarder being dubbed “the town that said NO to T in the Park”.
Debs said: “There are people who say to us in the street, ‘Don’t worry about it’ but of course we do worry.
“It’s a planning application that could be successful or it could fail.
“A supporter stopped me in the street saying one of their concerns is that if the planning application doesn’t go through the town of Auchterarder would be seen as the town that says, ‘No’ to things. That would do real damage.
“I would be really worried that it would earn a reputation around the world as the town that said, ‘No’ to T in the Park because it would damage the reputation of Auchterarder and Perthshire going forward.”
Sitting in the chilly drawing room of Strathallan Castle, Jamie and Debs, both 43, also revealed they were first approached in secret four years ago by organisers DF Concerts about hosting T in the Park.
 

Jamie said: “As a family, we’re always looking for new and diverse income streams of revenue.
“We would be na&iuml;ve not to listen to any option that came along.
“We spent a long time in dialogue with DF Concerts and we were very happy with what they could offer.”
The organisers of the 85,000 capacity music festival, which was founded in 1994, have been forced to move from Balado, near Kinross, because of health and safety concerns over a gas pipeline.
Initially, T in the Park bosses believed their application to stage the event at Strathallan from July 10-12 this year would be straightforward.

That all changed with the discovery of an osprey nest in September 2014, leading to two public consultations as part of a wider application process including an environmental impact statement.
Debs and Jamie admit there is a real danger that a planning application to have T in the Park take place on their land will be rejected, not least due to the highly organised Strathallan T Action Group — or STAG for short — who are opposed to the move.
A decision by Perth and Kinross Council is due next month and the fate of the festival, featuring acts like Noel Gallagher and Kasabian, hangs in the balance after DF Concerts submitted an updated planning application.
It included new information about traffic plans and further investigations into local wildlife.
The waters have been muddied by accusations that DF Concerts have positioned a digger and crane adorned with a Saltire and CDs to discourage ospreys returning after the winter for nesting.
 

STAG supporters have voiced concerns that laws protecting wildlife may be “got round”.
Jamie said: “You don’t get round them. You obey. Those laws are there for a very good reason.”
Debs added: “What we have to remember is that the estate is not just the bit that is being used for T in the Park.
“There is wildlife all over and we are people who are wildlife friendly.
“We have been organic farmers for over 20 years.
“We understand what it’s like to manage the wildlife when you are actively having human intervention such as agriculture on site.
“Where we farm organically we have seen the brown hare population quadruple in that time.
“That’s valuable to us. So we are very secure that the advice that is being given – and DF Concerts are following – in protecting the wildlife on site is exactly as it should be.
“There are no laws being broken.
“It’s following their advice and working with people to make sure that things are being protected.”

There’s also a potential &pound;2.4million annual windfall for the local economy if T in the Park does go ahead in July.
Jamie said: “As you can see you are sitting in a castle.
“It’s not cheap to maintain a house let alone run it.
“It can’t be done from the returns from agriculture alone which is primarily the income streams on the estate.
“T in the Park would allow upgrades and renovations to be done. The local B&amp;Bs have been full since last June when it was announced that T in the Park may be coming here.
“I spoke last night to a man who runs a local bus service who can’t wait. For petrol stations and local shops the benefits are obvious.”
 

While the locals appear split on the pros and cons, even family members have come out against the move to stage T in the Park, including Mark Liddiard.
A cousin of Jamie and Jamie's sister Anna, Liddiard’s property will be surrounded by the festival campsite.
He said recently: “My wife and I have bent over backwards to help Anna with business ideas. We thought she was our friend until she came up with another business idea — T in the Park.
“The first I heard was from the guy in his tractor outside my fence saying he wasn’t planting beans as this was to be the campsite.”
Asked about the strain on family relations Jamie and Debs stand firm.
Jamie said: “Bringing 85,000 people to a rural environment in Scotland is out of the box thinking.
“There will always be people who are unhappy with any decision.”
And what of the claims by STAG that councillors may have already made up their minds?
Jamie said: “If the application is successful it will happen on Strathallan. If it doesn’t it won’t.
“If it doesn’t happen I’ll be very disappointed but we have to abide by due process.”

Try your hand at our daily entertainment quiz:

