THE mum of a Scottish soldier found dead in Miami said she is “destroyed” after learning her son was killed by a hit-and-run driver.
Shaun Cole died on Sunday morning after going to a music festival with two friends.
A source said his body was found on a pavement after he became separated from the others when he went to the toilet.
The 22-year-old from Edinburgh, who had completed two tours of Afghanistan and had recently served in Sierra Leone to aid Ebola relief work, had suffered a head injury.
His devastated mum Michele Beattie thanked his many friends who turned up to support the family at the New Yorker Pool bar in Edinburgh on Wednesday night at a celebration of his life.
In the clip posted on social media, Michele said: “What it means to me, to Jade, to Nick, that everybody is here.
“That everybody knew that Shaun was the most amazing, happy, happy, happy, boy and we want him home and we’ll get him home.
“And we want you all to celebrate his life cause everybody loved him and everybody is genuinely here for him and I’m his mum and I’m destroyed, destroyed.”
 

The 52-year-old was interrupted by cheers, clapping and chants of “there’s only one Shaun Cole”.
The suspected hit-and-run is believed to be the second such incident at the event after a stripper crashed into another man two hours before Private Cole was pronounced dead.
Reports initially showed that the 22-year-old suffered blunt force trauma to the head after witnesses spotted him bleeding from his ear near the motel he was staying at on Biscayne Boulevard.
A source said he had become separated from his friends after going to use the toilet after the music festival and failed to return.
His lifeless body was discovered on the pavement at around 7am by a concerned passerby.
The Edinburgh man’s family announced yesterday (thur) that Miami Police believe he was mowed down by a vehicle which left the scene.
In a statement released by the Army, Shaun’s family said: “We would like to inform everyone that Miami Police are now following a line of inquiry that would suggest that Shaun was involved in a hit and run incident.
“We would like to thank Miami Police and Consular staff and everyone who has offered support to our family over the last few days.”
A second hit and run happened at last weekend’s popular music festival which left another 22-year-old Canadian tourist fighting for his life.
A stripper crashed her blue BMW into Alex Sanghwan near the Diamonds Strip Club less than two hours before the body of Private Cole was found in a puddle of blood.
US news outlets are reporting that 26-year-old Olivia Bennett is charged with two counts of reckless driving.
It is not believed she was involved in Shaun’s death.
Shaun was a private with the 1st Battalion The Royal Regiment of Scotland who had completed two tours of Afghanistan.
The hero returned from the disease-stricken Sierre Leone in January where he was part of an Ebola fighting mission.
Dozens of tributes to the “true gent” have poured in online and dozens of flowers, cards and football memorabilia have been laid outside his mother’s house and the old Tynecastle High building.
Pal Jamie Lothian, who was on holiday with Shaun, arranged an emotional gathering of the soldier’s friends in Edinburgh on Wednesday night.
He was left overwhelmed by the turnout. He said: “Would just like thank to everyone for coming last night at such short notice and the turnout just proves how many life’s Shaun has touched in so many different ways.
“It melted my heart to see so many different faces from all over Edinburgh all there for the same reason to show there respects and love for my boy sha!!”.
In a heart wrenching video, Shaun’s distraught mum thanked his many friends who turned up to support her and her family on Wednesday night for a celebration of his life at the New Yorker Pool bar in Edinburgh.
In the clip posted on social media, mum Michele Beattie, said: “What it means to me, to Jade, to Nick, that everybody is here.
“That everybody knew that Shaun was the most amazing, happy, happy, happy, boy and we want him home and we’ll get him home.
“And we want you all to celebrate his life cause everybody loved him and everybody is genuinely here for him and I’m his mum and I’m destroyed, destroyed.”
The 52-year-old is interrupted by cheers, clapping and chants of “there’s only one Shaun Cole”.
Tributes were left to the soldier outside his home and former school yesterday:


