DEREK “Deco” Ferguson – a 5ft 3in thug with half a left ear who allegedly shot a barman dead in a pub car park.
Israr Ali, a shadowy figure with as many as 10 aliases who disappeared soon after a corpse was discovered in a Glasgow flat.
Jonathan Kelly, the machete maniac who became Scotland’s most dangerous prisoner then apparently vanished off the face of the earth.
Rezgar Zengana, a sexual predator who raped a young woman after posing as a taxi driver then ran away rather than face justice.
And super-spiv Dariusz Eugeniusz Kazmierczak, who faces no fewer than 350 charges of online fraud.
They’re the fugitive five – and the first men to have their mugshots plastered all over an FBI-style Most Wanted list launched today by Police Scotland.
Ferguson has been on the run for seven years, Zengana for more than six, Ali for more than four and Kazmierczak for almost a year.
And police admitted in December that they hadn’t had a single sighting of Kelly since he cut off his electronic tag and did a runner after being freed early from jail.
But Detective Inspector David Wilson, head of Police Scotland’s Fugitive Unit, has the same message for them all...
You can run, but you won’t hide forever. However long it takes, we will get you.
Wilson and his team have caught 215 fugitives in a two-year period, and he hopes the Most Wanted list will get him the help he needs from the public to snare many more.
 
He said of the website: “It’s been a successful tactic right across the world and we’ll be adding and removing individuals as we go on.
“Any assistance we can get from the public would be greatly appreciated.”
Every case is important to Wilson, but getting Deco Ferguson would be a major prize.
 

He’s been a wanted man since 2007, when barman Tam Cameron, 49, was gunned down outside the Auchinairn Tavern in Bishopbriggs, near Glasgow.
Ferguson’s fellow suspect, heroin dealer Billy Bates, was found dead in the Clyde weeks after the murder.
Police believe Bates was killed because he wanted to give himself up. They are keen to speak to Ferguson about what happened to him.
The Record understands Ferguson is now in Spain, under the protection of criminals from Ireland. It’s also believed he’s had surgery to repair his ear after losing a chunk of it years ago in a brawl.
Wilson said Ferguson was extremely dangerous. He added: “He is wanted for murder using a firearm, and anybody using firearms has to be considered a major risk.
“There were just under 100 murders in 2007 and only three involved firearms.
“From that point of view, the risk around Ferguson is probably higher than most.
“The fact he has managed to evade capture for seven years shows he has a certain amount of support around him.”

Spain is a favourite bolthole for Scots crooks on the run but police fear Israr Ali could be thousands of miles further away in Pakistan.
Police want to speak to him over the April 2010 death of Waquar Shah, 42, whose was found dead at his flat in Shawlands, Glasgow.
Ali was seen in England the morning after Waquar was found, but hasn’t been seen since. His list of false names includes Asiam Ali and Mohammad Israr.
Zengana picked up his victim in Glasgow’s Argyle Street in December 2006 while posing as a private hire taxi driver.
The 25-year-old woman was trying to get home after a Christmas party. But Zengana took her to a house in the Cessnock area of the city, where he raped her.
The Iraqi-born beast was convicted in 2008 but was bailed to await sentence and failed to return to court. Police said in 2011 that they feared he had gone to the Netherlands.
Serial thug Kelly, 34, of Drumchapel in Glasgow, was originally jailed for a machete attack that left the victim paralysed.
He then committed a series of savage assaults on fellow-inmates and prison officers.
He was charged with at least nine other crimes and had a total of 16 years added to his original eight-year sentence.
Despite his horrific record, Kelly, the son of a convicted gangland murderer, was freed early on a tag and promptly cut it off and disappeared.
Police later admitted they had so little information on his whereabouts that they couldn’t say for certain if he was alive or dead.
But Detective Superintendent Stevie Grant added: “I do believe he is still alive and would appeal to him to contact the police and give himself up.”
Kazmierczak is wanted in his native Poland for a massive list of online frauds.
The conman sold laptops, computers and mobile phones on auction sites then failed to deliver the goods. He faces 350 charges involving a total of &pound;50,000, and 12 warrants for his arrest.
Scots police arrested Kazmierczak in April last year but he used a false identity and failed to appear in court.
Wilson would love to add all five fugitives to his unit’s growing list of successful captures.
Notable recent successes include the arrest of multi-million pound VAT fraudster Michael Voudouri, now serving 11 years for a scam worth &pound;11.6million. He was caught after our sister paper The Sunday Mail tracked him to his bolthole in northern Cyprus.
Jamaican Orlando Gray, who carrieda gun in Glasgow city centre, was brought back from his homeland and jailed for five years.
And heroin trafficker Allan Smith got six years in 2013 after being returned to Scotland from Amsterdam.
Police forces around the world co-operate to catch fugitives. Wilson’s unit spend most of their time tracking suspects from other countries, and foreign forces arrest Scots runaways in return.
The fugitive five will be the first of many crooks and suspects to appear in the Most Wanted section of the Police Scotland website.
Wilson hopes people will take the time to check it out – and perhaps provide the scrap of information that could lead him to a dangerous criminal.
He said: “We’ll be happy to speak to anyone directly, or it can be done completely anonymously.
“There are families out there whose loved ones have been killed. They deserve to see a court case. They deserve to get closure.”
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

