A 13-year-old girl was raped by a schoolboy as she lay unconscious in an abandoned building.
Her attacker, just 14 at the time, was convicted this week of the brutal sex attack in a Glasgow park – after forcing his victim to relive her ordeal in court.
He faces a custodial sentence when he is sentenced next month but his victim’s anguished mother fears she will bear the mental scars for life.
Neither the boy, now 15, nor the girl can be named for legal reasons.
Last night, the girl’s mother said her once happy and bubbly daughter, now 14, is now playing truant and is angry and rebellious.
The mum wept with relief after the jury gave their guilty verdict.
But she admitted: “She is not the same bouncy little girl that she was.
“She is angry, she is numb and it feels like the child has gone from her.
“I will never forgive him for what he has done. It is sick that such a young boy could do this.”
The mum also revealed that her daughter had been bullied in the wake of the attack by cruel adults who taunted her by accusing her of having lied about the rape.
The rapist had only just turned 14 at the time of the attack on January 25 last year.
The girl had met him for the first time that day when her friend, who was a year older and going out with the rapist’s friend, introduced them.
All four went to Pollok Park in Glasgow, where the girl was plied with alcohol.
 

She told the two-week trial at the High Court in Glasgow that she did not drink but her friend was encouraging her to drink cider, and was “squeezing” the plastic bottle into her mouth.
Her attacker was downing Buckfast at the same time.
The girl told the Record yesterday that she had been “completely drunk” but her friend had refused to take her home.
They walked to a wooded area in the park and the girl blacked out.
When she came round, she was on her knees inside a disused water tower.
She said: “I woke like I had been in a really deep sleep. I was on my knees and I was screaming for my friend but she didn’t come.
“He kept telling me to ‘shoosh’ and not to make a noise.”
Her attacker then forced her to commit a sex act before she blacked out again.
Forensic tests showed the boy had forced her to have sex while she was unconscious. And the attacker’s friend, who came looking for them after hearing the girl’s screams, told the court that he found the teenage rapist zipping his flies, standing over his half-naked victim, as she lay unconscious.
The friends carried her out of the woods and the girl remembers little of what happened next. But at some point around 10pm, she separated from them and knocked on a stranger’s door for help.
When her mother, who had been expecting her home at 9.30pm, called her daughter’s mobile, the woman answered.
The mother said: “I had been calling her because if she was ever going to be late she would call me. I sensed that there was something wrong. The woman told me that my daughter was really drunk and upset and she was saying she was sore and hurting.”
The woman arranged for the girl to be brought home and her mother was shocked and horrified when she saw her. She said: “She was covered in mud from head to toe. She just kept saying she was sorry.”
The girl’s mother put her in a shower but noticed that the shorts she had been wearing over leggings were missing. Her face and mouth were swollen and bruised.
She said: “I called the police. Instinctively, I think I knew what had happened but couldn’t comprehend it.”
When the police arrived, a female officer managed to coax the girl to tell her what had happened. Her mother said: “Hearing my child say that she had been hurt like that, left me empty inside. I am tortured by what happened to her.”
The boy was convicted of raping the girl when she was under the influence of alcohol and “incapable of giving or withholding consent”.
The hate campaign which followed, in which one woman accused her of being “the girl with the face of an angel, who cried rape” has added to her anguish.
Her mother said: “That made everything so much harder for her. The things that were said to her were disgusting.
“That is one of the reasons this sentence is such a relief because it was really important to her that she was believed.”
The mother said having to give evidence was hard for the girl but she did well.
She added: “I found it gut-wrenching being in court and seeing the boy who did this to her. I felt an overpowering rage.”
Regardless of the verdict, the girl has been in turmoil since the attack.
Her mother said: “She won’t share her feelings. Sometimes, she is unrecognisable to me, it is as though she has shut down emotionally. She won’t go for counselling and I am scared she is bottling everything up.
“She was such a lovely girl, really sensitive and bubbly but now it is as though it is her against the world. I just hope she can recover from what happened.”
But, the girl’s mother said, her one consolation is knowing that her attacker will be off the streets after he is sentenced on April 22.
She said: “I would encourage anyone to come forward and report a crime like this. The police and prosecution were fantastic, understanding and determined. I would say, don’t suffer in silence, do something about it. I am glad that we did.”

