A MOTHER who knifed her little son to death and cut out his heart believed she was on a mission from God, a court heard today.
A judge ruled that Farai Chirashi, 32, was insane when she killed her five-year-old boy, Scott.
He acquitted her of murder and ordered her to be detained in a secure mental hospital without limit of time.
A senior psychiatrist told the High Court in Glasgow that Chirashi had a psychotic illness with symptoms of schizophrenia when she killed Scott at their home in Alva , Clackmannanshire, on December 4 or 5 last year.
The  reported in December that paramedics called to the house in Carnaughton Place discovered that Scott’s heart had been removed.
One medic told us the little boy had suffered “a sickening and violent death”. Emergency workers involved in the case were offered counselling.
Scott, his mother and sister had lived in Alva for at least seven years but had only moved to their new home earlier in 2014 after Chirashi and her husband Tichakunda Chiriseri split up.
Tichakunda, 46, was in court today but was not available for comment afterwards.
After Scott’s body was found , Chirashi was detained under the Mental Health Act while doctors assessed whether she was fit to stand trial.
Today, judge Lord Burns heard today from psychiatrist Dr John Crichton, one of the experts who has examined Chirashi.
He said she was suffering delusions and hallucinations with “abnormal religious content” when she killed her son.
 

 
Dr Crichton’s report added that she had believed she was on “special mission from God”.
He agreed with prosecutor Bruce Erroch that Chirashi was continuing to make a good recovery from her illness.
But he added that she had committed “an act of homicide with particularly disturbing features” and would need “supervision for the foreseeable future”.
Chirashi was charged with striking Scott repeatedly on the head, neck and body with knives.
Her lawyers lodged a special defence of insanity. Her counsel, Gary Allan QC, told the court that her mental disorder at the time had left her unable to “appreciate the nature and wrongfulness” of what she had done.
Mr Erroch accepted the special defence.
The Crown Office said later that Chirashi had been charged with murder before doctors had given their opinion on her state of mind.
A spokesman added: “The unanimous opinion of the expert reports concluded that the accused was insane at the time of the incident.
“Therefore, she could not, in law, be found to be responsible for her actions.
“We have therefore accepted that she was incapable, by reason of mental illness, of appreciating the nature or wrongfulness of her actions.
“The Crown is satisfied that the public will be protected by her detention in a secure hospital.
“Scott’s family have been kept informed of developments throughout the case.”
Lord Burns imposed a compulsory treatment and restriction order on Chirashi, without limit of time.
He said she would be held “for the foreseeable future” and would need “a long-term and robust” period of treatment for her mental illness.
She showed no emotion as she was led from the dock.
 

Chirashi will be held at the medium-security Orchard Clinic in Edinburgh, where she has been receiving treatment.
Detective Inspector Martin MacLean, who led the police investigation, said later: “This was a tragic incident which deeply affected the local community, and I would like to extend my sympathies to Scott’s family and all those touched by this little boy’s life.
“I would like to personally thank my officers, who carried out thorough and professional enquiries, in such sad circumstances, and also colleagues from our partner agencies who helped enormously with this investigation.”
Scott’s death caused such shock in Alva that many local people are still reluctant to speak about it.
Andrew Fraser, 21, moved into Carnaughton Place just a month after Scott’s death.
He said: “I knew about what happened from the boys at work but no one here talks about it.
“All the talk is about what will happen to the house. It is still empty and people are wondering if someone will be rehoused there or whether it will be knocked down.”
Another local resident, Fiona Saunders, 58, added: “We never knew the family personally as they kept themselves to themselves, but it was still quite a shock to hear something like that happening here.
“I’m a psychiatric nurse and I don’t think anyone who was sane would do that to their child.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

