FERNANDO Ricksen is focused on the rest of his life, not the end of it.
Seventeen months have now passed since the Rangers hero was told he had motor neurone disease – and given 15 months to live.
And having beaten the odds once, Fernando’s out to beat them again and again.
He’s living by the slogan tattooed on his chest, just below the name of his little daughter Isabella.
It reads: “I am a warrior, a warrior with fighting spirit. I will never give up and never surrender.”

Fernando will soon launch his own clothing range – not to raise some money for his family while he’s still here, but because he wants to try something new.
It’s typical of his approach to an illness that terrifies many. He insists his quest to be the first person ever to beat MND is very much alive.
It’s incurable and terminal but he’s fighting it every minute of every day, with the same fierce determination that made the Ibrox fans love him.
“I feel good,” Fernando said. “I’m going to be here for a long time.”

Fernando, 38, is long since over the initial hammer blow of his diagnosis. His goal now is to improve his health and life.
The Dutchman has been to wife Veronika’s homeland of Russia, where he played for Zenit St Petersburg, for treatment. And he insists he’s seen small but significant improvements as a result.
He had been experiencing tremors in his tongue. They’re now gone.
And after sleeping for 18 hours a day as recently as January, he’s now following a relatively normal routine and taking daily three-mile walks.
Fernando said: “I’ve had the illness for one-and-a-half years, coming up soon to two, and we’ve identified problems along the way.

“I found things very hard at first but I’m learning to live with it now and starting to accept it.
“I know what makes me feel bad and good so that makes it easier to live. Every day I learn something different and do something new.
“The treatment I’ve had in Russia is helping. It gives me more energy and a little bit more movement.
“I’m eating more and more but that’s good for me because it makes me feel better. If I don’t do that, I find things very difficult.
 

“I’m living a more normal life because of that and I’m sleeping less than I was a few months ago. If I don’t eat, I need to sleep more.
“A lot of it is about determination. That’s why some people live longer with MND and I feel better now than I have.
“I’m trying to deal with this with the same approach I had on the football pitch, and I have to push myself every day.
“With the clothing range, I’ve worked hard on it because I know it has to be good. I wanted to do it the right way.
“I’m looking towards the future with it. Yes, some of the money made will fund my treatment and half the proceeds will go into a trust fund for my daughter.
“But I’m a retired footballer so now I need to do something else with my life. I need to stay busy because it keeps me active.
“I’m not looking for a handout and I’m not selling clothes because I’m sick. I’m selling them because it’s something new for me to try.
“It is a new challenge and if I can use my name to do that, hopefully my family can benefit.”
Fernando played an active part in designing the range and will sell it through the website fernandoricksen.co.uk , to be launched later this month.
It’s important to Fernando to know he’s not alone in his fight.
In January, 41,000 fans poured into Ibrox for a star-studded tribute match in his honour, and he was back in Scotland on Friday to receive cheques from the game for himself and Isabella.
“I want to say thanks to everybody who came to the game and supported me because the fans were incredible,” Fernando said.
“We had players who have won European Cups and World Cups there. That meant a lot to me and the support I’ve had has been fantastic. But I wasn’t looking at the game as a farewell.”
While in Glasgow, Fernando went to two question and answer sessions with fans. And at one, he met a fellow MND sufferer who happens to support Celtic.
 

 
“He’s been living with motor neurone disease for four years and it was really nice he wanted to talk to me,” Fernando said.
“It doesn’t matter to me if someone supports Rangers, Celtic or whoever. The fact he came to see me was the biggest thing.
“With this disease, you can’t compare one case to the next. Every individual case is different.
“You could live for one year with it, four years or even 25. How and why that’s the case, nobody knows.
“His form of MND is different from mine. It’s slower whereas mine is more aggressive and we have to do different things to deal with it, but there are similarities too.
“We still have a lot of the same symptoms so we experience a lot of the same feelings, and it was good for us to discuss that.
“I know what I have to do to make myself feel good and I need to listen to my body. I have to do what I think will help me best.
“But it was nice for me to meet another person who has the same illness and to hear how they cope with it.”
Other Scots clubs have also rallied round Fernando, with Hearts inviting him to their league championship celebrations at Tynecastle on Saturday.
The Jambos have links to Edinburgh’s Euan MacDonald Centre, where scientists work to improve the lives of people with MND.
