 POLICE Scotland 's leadership has again been called into question by an MSP after the Chief Constable was forced to apologise personally to a caller who was left on hold for almost an hour by a police control-room. 
A &quot;technical fault&quot; meant the caller was repeatedly dropped to the end of the queue and waited 58 minutes for an answer, Nicola Sturgeon revealed at First Minister's Questions.
Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie said this again calls into question the veracity of Police Scotland's responses after they initially &quot;dismissed&quot; his concerns and said &quot;calls were answered within a minute&quot;.
 Police Scotland has faced persistent allegations of withholding critical information . 
It was recalled to Holyrood's Justice Sub-Committee on Policing over gradually emerging evidence about the extent of armed policing.
 A report by HM Inspectorate of Constabulary in Scotland (HMICS) also uncovered a lack of consistency on stop-and-search across Scotland and concluded that it had no confidence in the force's data on the practice . 
 Opposition politicians rounded on Chief Constable Sir Stephen House and senior Police Scotland management at the Scottish Police Federation conference yesterday, with Mr Rennie urging Sir Stephen to &quot;change his ways&quot; or go. 
 Labour leader Jim Murphy and Conservative leader Ruth Davidson stopped short of calling for his departure but expressed concerns about the leadership , and Ms Sturgeon said no chief constable should be &quot;a law unto themselves&quot;. 
Speaking at First Minister's Questions today, Mr Rennie said: &quot;Last week I told the First Minister that people were waiting up to an hour to have their calls answered at the Bilston Glen.
&quot;Police Scotland dismissed my concerns, saying calls were answered within a minute.
&quot;Well, that turns out to be true because it's an automated machine.
&quot;A police call handler told me people can wait an age to speak to a human after they have pressed the right button.
&quot;Sgt Murray McKenzie told the police conference: 'Supersize control-rooms are a disaster. Calls are constantly lost'.&quot;
Ms Sturgeon said: &quot;I have found out that one caller was left on the line for 58 minutes after making a 101 call.
&quot;That was due to a technical fault which caused the call to repeatedly drop to the end of the queue.
&quot;The issue has been resolved and the Chief Constable has personally apologised to the individual concerned in that case.
&quot;101 calls to Bilston Glen are being answered, on average, in a minute. That is the case.&quot;
 

Mr Rennie said: &quot;I do think she needs to look into the veracity of the explanation that she is being provided.&quot;
He added: &quot;I am increasingly concerned about the integrity and the practices of the leadership of Police Scotland.
&quot;She it heard loud and clear yesterday on stop-and-search, on guns, on the information commissioner, on targets, the leadership of Police Scotland seem incapable of being straight with their answers - and now we have control-rooms.&quot;
Ms Sturgeon pledged to look into Mr Rennie's additional concerns and urged MSPs to also reflect on &quot;the good work in very difficult circumstances that our police officers do&quot;.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

