PEOPLE in Scotland are being forced to fix their own teeth because they are too poor to pay for a dentist.
Families in poverty are using DIY dental kits to repair fillings and crowns and, in an echo of Victorian Britain, some are even extracting their own teeth.
As austerity bites, sales of the kits – which sell for around &pound;5 but are only intended to provide a temporary remedy – have soared.
Dental check-ups are free in Scotland but even under NHS rates the cheapest &shy;fillings cost over &pound;7.
Those costs are compounded by the fact many people in deprived areas struggle to get on a waiting list for an NHS practice, while the expense of private treatment can be enormous.
A charity worker in one of Scotland’s worst economic blackspots said a client had told her that his uncle treated the entire family.
Emma Richardson, of the Star Project in Paisley, added: “People feel embarrassed to fill out the free prescription form and prefer to get help from friends who don’t judge them as scroungers.”
Another client resorted to popping an abscess with a fork because treatment was too expensive.
 

There is a direct link between poverty and poor oral health, and people in the most deprived areas have eight fewer teeth than in the richest communities.
One Glasgow dad, who didn’t want to be named, said after missing an appointment and being charged &pound;25, he turned to a DIY dentistry kit. The 38-year-old building engineer began fixing his own teeth rather than face potentially high bills.
His partner had given up her teaching job when their eldest son was diagnosed with leukaemia five years ago.
And when the recession hit, he found work hard to come by and had to prioritise.
He said: “I couldn’t justify going and getting my teeth out when we can’t afford nappies.”
After he was sanctioned for arriving late at a job centre interview, the family were left with &pound;65 per week.
From that they paid &pound;10 for gas and &pound;10 for electricity, plus bus fares to the job centre. He said: “When you add in TV licence and phone calls you’ve got &pound;25 per week, which has to cover food.”
 

Just under two thirds of the population have seen a dentist in the past two years.
However, the British Dental Health Foundation’s chief executive Dr Nigel Carter warned that DIY dentistry is “dangerous and unnecessary”.
He added: “There are too many senseless examples of people either pulling out the wrong tooth or ending up with an infection.
“It’s easy to make the problem worse, which could result in more invasive and expensive treatment.”

Try our quick news quiz below:

