A WIFE has told how a stripper stole her dad and her husband – then taunted her with a text message saying: “Kiss my a**e.”
Jacqui Lowe was devastated when her dad George left Irene, his wife of 30 years, for stripper Vici Lorimer.
But Jacqui and Vici eventually forgot their differences and consoled each other in their grief when George died of lung cancer in 2012.
Now, however, Jacqui says Vici, 43, has wrecked her life for a second time – by stealing her husband Charles.
And the abusive text message just rubbed salt in the wound.
Jacqui said: “I got a message from her that had been sent on Charles’s phone. It said, ‘Kiss my a**e, Vici’.
“I can’t believe she could do this to me. It was bad enough when she tore my family apart in 1994. My mum never got over her taking my dad away.
“But for dad’s sake, once I knew their relationship was serious, I allowed Vici in. Now she has repaid me like this. She is an evil piece of work.
“This has ripped my heart out. Why can’t she find a man of her own – a man who doesn’t have a wife?”
Vici came into the family’s lives when Jacqui’s parents worked as entertainers.
George was a comedian who used the stage name Claude Bols.
Irene, now 67, was also a comic, who worked under the name Tracy Dean. She specialised in blue material and often worked on the same bill as Roy “Chubby” Brown.
 

George and Irene performed in working men’s clubs. They also did hen and stag parties and were sometimes booked alongside strip acts.
Vici – known as Candice Tyler before adopting the stage name Candi – was one of the strippers they got to know.
Jacqui, of Glenrothes, said George, who was 47 at the time, started having an affair with Vici, who was in her 20s.
She added: “My dad moved out, first to a flat, then in with Vici.
“My mum was distraught. She adored him and couldn’t believe he would leave her and his family.
“She never got over it. She’d had a great career in front of her but everything came tumbling down.
“Fifteen months &shy;after my dad left, she had a terrible car crash and was in a coma for nine weeks.
“She had a brain injury and has never fully recovered. I think she had the accident because she was grieving for her marriage.
“We all had to adjust and get on with our lives. Although my three brothers and I were angry with dad, we loved him and we stayed in his life.
“After 10 years, he married Vici and we had to accept it. I went to their wedding and welcomed her into my home. I regularly visited her and my dad.” George was diagnosed with terminal cancer in October 2011.
Jacqui, 49, said: “That was the first stage in our growing close. Vici was devastated and we both had to start coming to terms with losing him.
“She was struggling to cope, so I was making meals for them.
When George died, aged 65, in April 2012, Jacqui and Vici comforted each other.
Jacqui added: “I felt close to her. We were both grieving and I let her into my life.
“I helped her out because dad had asked me to. He was worried about her and feared that she would not manage financially. I helped sort her mortgage so she could keep the house.
“I opened my heart to her and we &shy;became inseparable. We were really close. Now this has happened.”
Jacqui is now struggling to cope with the heartbreak of Vici getting together with Charles, 45.
 
 

She said: “There was no warning. On December 4 last year, Charles said he was leaving me. He said he wasn’t happy, which was the first I’d heard of it. I loved Charles. My life revolved around him, our disabled 18-year-old daughter Charley and my son from an earlier marriage.”
Jacqui sensed something was wrong shortly after Vici burned herself while she was learning to fire-eat.
She said: “I took her to hospital and when she got out five days later, Charles collected her. Something changed from then. Vici started flirting with him, shoving her boobs in his face and giggling. I warned him that she was after him but he told me not to be ridiculous.
“When he said he was leaving a few days later, I asked him if he was having an affair with Vici and he denied it. The spineless rat kept lying about it for weeks. He was obviously too &shy;embarrassed to admit the truth.
“We’d have been married 25 years in October. He’ll regret the choice he’s made. As for Vici, she’s not fit to lace my boots.”
Charles said: “Vici has decided to make no comment as it would just make things worse.”
He insisted his relationship &shy;with Vici did not begin until after he left Jacqui.
He said: “We have done nothing wrong. Vici is a widow and I had left Jacqui – I was separated. I didn’t leave Jacqui for Vici.
“I hadn’t been happy in my marriage for a long time and only stayed as long as I did for Charley.
“Vici and I became good friends and she helped me through a lot of stuff.
“We are just trying to get on with our lives. All I want is to be left to get on with my life and have a relationship with my daughter, who I adore.”
Charles said Vici – who also worked as a carer for special needs kids – has not stripped for five or six months.
But her picture and details under the name Randi Candi are on the &shy;website of a strippers’ agency.
It says she can be booked for a 15-minute dance for &pound;110.

