TWO people were killed today when a light aircraft crashed into a remote hillside in Argyll.
The bodies of the two and the wreckage have been found by searchers.
A search was launched after radar contact with the plane was lost at around 1.50pm in the Beinn nan Lus area of Glen Kinglass.
A multi-emergency response involving the police, ambulance service and the coastguard was co-ordinated.
Police Scotland confirmed that the wreckage of an aircraft was discovered on the northern aspect of the Glen Kinglass area at around 8pm.
The remains of the two people on board have also been discovered.
Chief Inspector Fergus Byrne said: &quot;Police Scotland has been working with partner agencies throughout the day to locate the aircraft and our thoughts are with the families of the victims.
&quot;Enquiries are continuing to establish the exact circumstances and a report will be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal.
&quot;Anyone with information regarding this incident is urged to contact police via the non-emergency number 101.&quot;
No further details will be released at present, the police said.
A massive land, air and sea search was launched after the Piper PA28 plane from Dundee failed to arrive on the isle of Tiree. Air traffic officers reported it had gone off radar at around 1.50pm.
The search centred on Ardmaddy, along the east shore of Loch Etive.
The Oban RNLI Lifeboat checked the loch, while Coastguard volunteers searched 23miles of shoreline.
 

Mountain rescue team scoured the hills above the loch but the search was called off late last night as light faded.
Iain MacKinnon, station officer of Oban Coastguard, said: “It’s thought the plane is in the hillside. It’s very cloudy and it’s a difficult area to search.
“It disappeared off radar earlier this afternoon and it’s believe there were two people on board.”
“It’s a huge search, I have seen 40 members from Oban, Arrochar and Police Scotland mountain rescue team. Oban lifeboat was on the water while we scoured the area for about three hours from Connel Bridge to Ardmaddy.”
 

When the plane vanished from radar, air traffic controllers at Swanwick in Hampshire called airports on the west coast and the Hebrides to try to trace it.
One source, who received a phone call, said: “The aircraft left from Dundee going to Tiree. It was a Piper PA28.
“I had two phone calls from Swanwick asking if it landed round here.”
A worker at Tiree airport confirmed they had been waiting for the plane to land but it had not done so. The airport website said yesterday that strong winds were causing disruption.
