A FOOTBALLER who lost one of his twin babies and girlfriend just seven months apart has told how he and his surviving daughter are rebuilding their lives.
Cowdenbeath player Dean Brett’s partner Gemma Porteous died in January after a brief battle with cancer. She was 22.
The devastating blow came just months after one of the young couple’s daughters, Mollie, lost her fight for life four weeks after being born prematurely.
Dean and the surviving twin, Mia, will be moving into a new home this weekend as the footballer bravely looks towards the future.
Opening his heart about the double tragedy, he said: “I’ll miss Gemma and Mollie every day for the rest of my life but Mia and I are going to be all right. We’re survivors.
“You have to just get on with it and I’m doing that. I just live my life.
“Because of what happened with Gemma and Mollie, and both being so young, you feel you need to do that for them.”
But Dean admitted grief creeps up on him at the most unexpected moments.
He said: “I was on a bus the other week going to physiotherapy and suddenly thought, ‘This time last year Gemma was pregnant, Mollie and Mia were born, Gemma got cancer and now they’re both gone.’
“It still doesn’t feel real. I do get annoyed sometimes but I try not to sit for hours thinking about everything that’s happened.
“I’ve got to be strong for Mia but sometimes I look at her and see Mollie and Gemma in her. I wonder what Mollie and Gemma are doing now.”
 

The 22-year-old defender, who is out with an ankle injury, said nine-month-old Mia is his saving grace.
He added: “When Mia was wee, she would just sleep. But now she’s starting to move about, she’s bored with everything in 10 minutes.
“It’s small things like going for a shower when she’s awake that I worry about but I’m lucky that I do have a lot of support.”
Dean, who is moving into a two-bedroom house close to his parents’ home in Tranent, East Lothian, said: “My parents and Gemma’s parents are amazing. Gemma’s mum and my cousin look after Mia for me so I can go to the gym and go to work. But everything’s got to be planned in advance.
“I love being a dad. I’ve always been a happy, positive person and I’m still the same person. I try to be positive for Mia’s sake.”
 
Dean’s world was turned upside down when the twins were born three months early last June.
Tiny Mollie tried to cling on to life for four weeks but sadly didn’t survive.
Dean said: “I’d never lost anyone before Mollie. It was hard when she died, really hard.
“After she passed away, she looked so beautiful and peaceful.
“She’d been really ill but when I saw her in her little coffin she was beautiful. It was a struggle to cope with her dying.”
 

Still reeling from the death of one of their babies, the young parents were shell-shocked when Gemma, who had been suffering horrendous pain in her back and legs, was diagnosed with spinal cancer.
In September, she was admitted to hospital for an operation to remove the tumour.
She remained there until the day she died – apart from brief visits home for Mia’s first Christmas and on Hogmanay.
Dean said: “It all happened really quickly.
“We had been planning for the future as we never expected it to be so bad. She was never really ill with the chemotherapy and for a while things were actually looking all right.
“She never complained or asked, ‘Why me?’ She just got on with it.
“Gemma never knew she was dying but once or twice when we were talking about things she would say, ‘What if I don’t make it?’
“She was in hospital from September until she died in January but sometimes she would be lively for a few days.
“I kept telling myself I was just going to wait and see because there was no point in me getting a wee bit of hope.”
As the cancer took a devastating hold of the young mum, she wasn’t aware her condition had deteriorated and that doctors had warned Dean to expect the worst.
He said: “I just told her she had an infection and she was really tired.
“On the Monday before she died, the doctors said it was possibly a bleed to the brain or the cancer getting worse.
“I knew then in myself things were bad but I didn’t say anything to my mum or family.
“The doctors and nurses at the cancer unit in the Western General were amazing. They tried so hard.”
Poignantly, Dean said it’s the “daft things” he misses most about Gemma.
He said: “I miss lots of things about her – even the things I used to moan about, like tagging me in pictures on Facebook and stuff, and now I miss it.
“Everybody loved Gemma. She was so nice to everyone and she was a positive person.
“I wish she could see Mia and how beautiful she is and I wish she could see how I’m doing as a dad. But I know her and Mollie are with us.”

