MICHELLE McManus has followed The Krankies from Glagow’s Pavilion to join the rival panto at the Clyde Auditorium.
The Pop Idol winner, 34, has been a mainstay of the Pavilion panto for the last three years.
Her panto debut was as Good Witch Glinda in The Wizard of Never Woz in 2012, she was the Blue Fairy in Pinocchio in 2013 and last year was a pirate in the Pavilion’s version of Treasure Island.
But she jumps ship and joins David Hasselhoff and The Krankies for Peter Pan - the latest panto staged at the Clyde Auditorium - Glasgow’s biggest panto - which usually starred John Barrowman.
Michelle will play the role of Mimi the Magical Mermaid, in Peter Pan and will be on hand to help the high-flying hero outwit the dastardly Captain Hook, guide the Lost Boys to safety and ensure the swashbuckling family pantomime goes with a bang.
Michelle, who recently received rave reviews for her one woman show, said: “I’m so excited to be joining The Hoff and The Krankies in panto this Christmas, and delighted to be appearing at the Clyde Auditorium.
“To be performing opposite the coolest Captain Hook possible is going to be amazing, not to mention hysterically funny working with Ian and Janette Krankie, I can’t wait.”
The Krankies were Pavilion favourites since meeting in the famous threatre 50 years ago this year.
But Janette Tough, who plays Jimmy Krankie, had a horror fall in 2004 during a production of Jack and the Beanstalk - it was their seventh panto at the venue.
 

They were then snapped up to star alongside John Barrowman in the Clyde Auditorium panto and Peter Pan will be their sixth year at the venue.
Also making a welcome return to the Clyde Auditorium, Peter Pan will also feature the mind-blowing Whizzbang 3D Productions which will take audiences from the comfort of their seats to the depths of the ocean in a spectacular underwater 3D sequence.
 
Peter Pan runs from December 12 2015 to January 3 2016 and will feature the SECC’s trademark blend of spectacular special effects, stunning sets and beautiful costumes.
* Tickets are already on sale, with early-bird discounts of &pound;5 off top-price tickets available until the end of April.
 For tickets and information visit www.secc.co.uk or call 0844 395 4000. 
Try our entertainment quiz below

