A SCOTS tourist has died in an apparent drowning just hours into a sunshine break with friends.
Brian Nicol, 32, failed to surface after diving into the swimming pool at the luxury Costa del Sol holiday villa where he was staying with pals.
The group had enjoyed their first night out in the upmarket resort of Marbella after jetting to Spain earlier in the day before returning to their rented villa to carry on partying.
Anguished friends dragged Glasgow-born Mr Nicol out of the water and tried to revive him.
Local police took over after reaching the scene shortly before paramedics but could nothing to save him.
Emergency services were called to the property, in the exclusive residential neighbourhood of Nueva Andalucia near disgraced former PR guru Max Clifford’s home, just after 8.30am on Sunday.
A post-mortem was due to take place on Monday at Malaga’s Forensic Medicine Institute.
A police spokesman said: “The incident is still being investigated but all the evidence at this stage is pointing towards the death being the result of a tragic accident.”
The dead man is understood to have flown to Spain hours before the tragedy with a group of around a dozen friends.
Sources close to the investigation said they had been told the group had gone out for the evening before returning to the villa to carry on partying around the pool.
One said: “Our understanding is the victim had dived into the pool and swum underwater two or three times during the night without any problem but failed to surface the last time he jumped in.
“Although he appears to have drowned, it’s too early at this stage to say why it happened.”
Forensic experts are expected to examine whether the dead man suffered a blow to the head or digestion problems which caused stomach cramps and may have led to him drowning.
 

An investigating judge has been put in charge of a routine judicial probe into the incident.
A spokesman for paramedics involved in trying to revive Mr Nicol said: “We received a call at 8.40am on Sunday and found a foreign man lying by the pool when we arrived.
“Paramedics tried to revive him but could do nothing to save him.
“An investigation into the death is now underway.”
Nueva Andalucia, the area where the tragedy happened, is a favourite of well-heeled British expats and holidaymakers.
It is a short drive from the millionaire playground paradise of Puerto Banus and boasts several high-quality golf courses.
Max Clifford owns a luxury apartment near to one of the courses Sean Connery was once a regular at.
Former Crystal Palace owner Simon Jordan also owns a holiday home in the upmarket residential area sandwiched between the Mediterranean and Marbella’s famous La Concha mountain.
Try our news quiz below

