Margaret Caldwell lost her mum Ellen last week.
It is hard but, she says, she has been through harder. Her oldest daughter Karen lost to cancer in 1998, her youngest Emma lost, first to a terrible addiction and then to murder, 10 years ago this weekend .
Her husband William died of cancer four years ago at 62, still, on his deathbed, hoping for justice for Emma, that her killer might yet be caught and punished .
It is a dreadful burden of grief for one woman to carry and you would need a heart of stone for it not to go out to this brave, dignified woman.
Mrs Caldwell is a good and decent person and so was her daughter Emma.
Even when her drug addiction had taken its dreadful toll and driven her on to the streets where she was prey to inadequate men full of rage and violence, she always believed in the possibility that she might have a better tomorrow. Sadly, she was not given the chance.
We are not detectives or judge or jury. We do not know if the former suspect for her murder, whose existence we reveal today, had anything to do with Emma’s death.
But, we believe, like Mrs Caldwell and her family, that the police should explain why they ruled him out as they pressed on building a sprawling and ultimately doomed case against four other men.
There is no suggestion that the police did not give this inquiry any less attention, resource or commitment because of Emma’s life on the streets.
As we describe today, their 27-month inquiry was one of the biggest, best resourced and most diligent that has ever been mounted in Scotland. In many important ways, the police could not have done more to catch Emma’s killer or killers.
However, for whatever reason, and we must hope it is a good one, senior officers chose to put aside concerns surrounding a man who knew Emma well, who was once said to have been obsessed with her and who had frequently, by his own admission, taken her to the remote woods where she was found dead.
We hope Police Scotland and the Crown Office will review the files as a matter of urgency because important, significant questions have been raised today.
Mrs Caldwell and her family deserve answers. Her daughter still deserves justice.

