WITH celebrity fans including Paul Lawrie, James Sutton and Derk Boerrigter, Scots designer Christian MacLeod is gearing up for a star studded fashion showcase.
The belt designer, 23, from Inverness, was a professional golfer, with a scratch handicap, had no designing or fashion experience until he set up his business in 2011.
Now based between Glasgow and London, he’s firmly focused on developing his range of luxury fashion belts.
He said: “I’ve always been a belt lover and enjoyed wearing lots of belts with outfits but very few brands had belts that I wanted to wear, so I started designing my own.
“Fellow golfers and friends commented on how much they loved my belts, I kidded on I picked them up in shops in town.”
 

Then fate intervened. Christian said: “I was injured and broke my ankle, so golf took a back seat and I focused purely on the label and decided to set up my business.”
Last year the CM brand was showcased in 82 magazines and online publications and he earned a nomination at the 2014 Scottish Fashion Awards as Accessory Designer of the Year.
His celebrity fans include fellow golfer Paul Lawrie.
Christian said: “Paul was our first celebrity I worked with and we worked with GQ on a photoshoot. Paul wears all my products on the PGA Tour and when he’s on the golf circuit.”
Hollyoaks actor James Sutton is also a fan and he counts Derk Boerrigter, Celtic star and his girlfriend, Miss Netherlands 2013 Jacqueline Steenbeek as friends and supporters of his brand.
 

The couple recently appeared in a photoshoot promoting the latest collection.
The CM brand, which is currently sold exclusively online, began with 18 belts being initially launched across three styles, the SS15 collection will see a further seven being added to the progressive luxury belt collection.
The SS15 collection will be officially launched and showcased at an invitation only event tonight in Glasgow’s Corinthian club.
After the fashion show guest will head for an intimate gathering to celebrate in the Merchant City’s go to late night party venue, Distrikt. 
Try our quick news quiz:

