CHILD witnesses could soon give pre-recorded evidence as part of reforms to protect them from the ordeal of giving evidence.
Justice secretary Michael Matheson has backed sweeping changes to the way vulnerable youngsters are treated by the justice system.
In the first six months of 2014 around 1,800 children gave evidence in Scotland's courts.
They are usually allowed to stand behind a special screen or speak via a video link from another part of the building.
But the new proposals could see them give their evidence in a place they are comfortable with months in advance of a trial.
These include allowing child victims and witnesses to give their evidence to a camera away from court in child-friendly facilities.
The pre-recorded footage would then be played back to a jury during the trial.
Last month a review of the treatment of children and other vulnerable witnesses concluded Scotland is “significantly lagging behind” the rest of the world.
And Justice Secretary Michael Matheson has acknowledged the need for reform.
At the recent SNP conference he told a Victim Support Scotland event: “I recognise the need to have access to a fair trial but I am also confident that, in Norway, they can deliver a fair trial.
“They can also do it in such a way that recognises the vulnerability of certain witnesses and have measures in place that help address these things more effectively.
“The challenge won’t be for the court service, the challenge will be for the legal profession and how they conduct themselves.
“We should be able to make progress where children in effect should not really be in courts.”
The review, led by Lord Carloway and Lord Justice Clerk, said there had been a “dramatic” increase in the number of children giving evidence in a system that was “ill equipped to accommodate them”.
The review concluded: “There is a compelling case that the evidence of a child or vulnerable witness should be captured in advance of any trial, in the form of a forensic interview, preferably as soon as possible after the initial complaint.
“Properly conducted, and often taking place within hours or days of the reported incident, such interviews are the best way to elicit a reliable and comprehensive account of the reported incident.”
A working group, involving representatives from legal, children’s support and victims’ organisations, is working on plans which will be handed to the Justice Secretary in the autumn.
 Try your hand at our daily news quiz: 

