A YOUNG engaged couple have died following a tragic motorcycle smash on a Scots road.
Steven Reiach, 23, and his fianc&eacute;e Dawn Watson, 24, died following a crash on Hilton Drive, Aberdeen, on Wednesday at around 8.54pm.
Emergency services rushed to the scene of the collision, which involved a black and orange KTM off road motorcycle the pair were travelling on and a silver Alfa Romeo, but Steven was pronounced dead at the scene.
Dawn was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary by paramedics where she later died.
Flowers were today left at the scene with friends and family taking to social media to pay tribute to the pair who are understood to have had a daughter together.
Steven’s mother Shirley Webb posted on Facebook:”On the 1st of April 2015, my world came crashing down with a big big bang that my darling youngest son Steven and his beautiful fianc&eacute; Dawn have been killed in a road traffic accident.
More news from Aberdeenshire
 

“I’m sitting here numb and very much devastated that my beautiful family have gone and I’m never gonna hear from them again.
“The one good thing is I’ve got my darling princess Sophie and I will make sure she will grow up to be the very best daughter they wanted for her.
“Sleep tight my two beautiful angels, until we meet again, always remember mum loves ya to the moon and back...forever your heartbroken Mum..xx”
Emma Robertson added: “Just woke up to the horrible news that ma wee cuz and his girl were taken from us tonight can’t believe this has Happened.
“RIP Steven and dawn u r up there next to Granda, till we meet again rip xxxx”
Jade Martin said: “i still cant believe this my bestfriend Dawn Watson and Steven Reiach i love uz soooooo much rip untill we meet again xxxxxxxxxxxxx”
Terri Thom added: “I can’t believe I’m writing this.... R.I.P Dawn Watson &amp; Steven Reiach I really can’t believe this has happened! Thinking of both your families today &amp; esp their beautiful little girl Sophie! I’m absolutely devastated! Fly high use 2!”
The 44-year-old man who was driving the Alfa Romeo was uninjured and no one else was involved in the collision.
The road was closed for around five hours while crash scene investigators examined the area.
Roads policing Inspector Ian Kirkwood said: “Enquiries into the full circumstances surrounding this collision are ongoing and we would appeal to anyone who saw either vehicle prior to the collision to contact us on 101.”

