
 richard cower (cower@csli.stanford.edu) wrote:
 : 
 : i believe this raid was ill planned because they only had 2 days to plan it,
 : and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part
 : in the much larger political agenda of president clinton. i would even 
 : suggest that the loss of 4 atf agents is inconsequential in this the
 : context of his political agenda. it might even be beneficial to his agenda, 
 : as it helps point up just how evil these assualt weapons are. further proof
 : might be that the atf denied their agents (street stories report) requests
 : for sufficient fire power. 
 : 
 : important dates: 
 : feb 25th - nj assembly votes to overturn assault weapon ban.
 : feb 28th - compound in waco attacked.	   
 : 
 : on feb. 25th the new jersey assembly voted to overturn the assault weapon
 : ban in that state. it looked like it might be a tight vote, but the senate
 : in n.j. was going to vote to overturn the ban. it would not sit well to have
 : an eastern state overturn an assault weapon ban, given clintons stated
 : agenda on gun control. i suspect clinton gave the order to get someone or
 : some: group with assualt weapons and have the press present (they were
 : initially
 : at the incident in waco) to record the event for the tv audience. the agent 
 : on "street stories" reported that a supervisor was urging them all to "get 
 : ready fast", as "they know we are coming". i believe this attack continued, 
 : even tho the probablility of failure was high,  because it came from the top 
 : down. after the n.j. assembly vote, the atf had a limited amount of time to
 : come up with something, and the wackos in waco fit the bill nicely.
 : 
 : ...rich 
 
 
    i don't know rich. last year when the congress was debating the bushmans
 'crime bill', the incident at lubys' cafe occured. most of the anti-gun
 crap was amended out of the bill anyway. 
 
    
    could a president 'order': go find some 'assault weapons' and bring the
 media". i hope not.  frankly, the toon-meister* scares me. of course 
 having a democratic majority in congress doesn't help. (apologies to all 
 demos' who support rkba)
 
 ( *definition: toon-meister - a characatureic name for the current 
 president of the u.s.:   clinton aka, clintoon aka toon-meister.)
 
 rob p.
 
 
 
 
 