
 in article <c4tshu.ew6@magpie.linknet.com> manes@magpie.linknet.com (steve manes) writes:
 >: that's all very well and good, but i was refering to all
 >: homocides, not just ones involving handguns (what is this fixation
 >: on death by shooting, as if it were somehow worse than death
 >: by stabbing?)
 
 >what relevance are all homicides in this debate?...
 >the issue is guns, not baseball bats.
 
 no. the issue is reducing crime, not guns. if gun control doesn't
 lower crime overall, then is doesn't address the issue.
 
 >...even a simpleton knows that
 >he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball bat...
 
 does that matter if assaults with a baseball bat become much
 more common? muggers using a gun rely primarily on the
 threat of the gun, and rarely shoot their victim. a mugger
 using a knife is much more likely to start by stabbing his victim 
 in an effort incapacitate him. so, while a knif may not
 be as deadly as a gun, criminals are more likely to actually
 _use_ the knife (as opposed to threatening the victim with it.)
 it isn't at all clear that replacing the criminal's gun with a
 knife would reduce murders. stabbings might just become more
 common. that's why it is important to look at the overall
 (not the with-gun) homicide rate. it avoids the issue of
 substitution, different criminal techinques of using different
 weapons, etc... and measures what we want to prevent: murders.
 
 >as for knives, see my earlier post.  i'd much rather face a knife
 >than a gun, thanks.  
 
 "face"? possibly. however, facing knife-welding attackers isn't
 too common: stabbing without warning and by supprise is the
 usual tactic. very few criminals shoot from cover: it attracts
 to much attention and they don't have a chance to go through your
 pockets. overall, i'd much rather be threatened with a gun
 than actually stabbed with a knife.
 
 >...fortunately, the best defense against a knife isn't
 >another knife.  anyone trained in unarmed self-defense won't have
 >much of a problem disarming a knife assailant untrained in knife
 >assault (which probably means 99.9% of knife assailants).
 
 actually, the exact same statement is true of guns: training in
 unarmed self-defence will let you disarm an untrained gunman 
 without much problem.
 
 you also ignore the criminal's reaction: the national crime
 survey clearly shows that criminals (unarmed, armed with a
 knife, gun or whatever) are unwilling to risk their lives
 in a confrontation. if faced with a serious threat, almost
 all prefer to leave and find an easier target. therefore,
 using (or threatening to use, as is much more commonly the case)
 a weapon _is_ the best defence against an attacker, regardless
 of how he is armed. knives, however, are much less effective
 than guns: criminals don't consider knifes as a "serious threat"
 nearly as often as they do guns.
 
                                               frank crary
                                               cu boulder
 
 