
 the libertarian second amendment caucus in fort collins, colorado,
 submitted this as a questionnaire to the city council candidates
 in the upcoming election. as expected, very few of the candidates
 (3 of 13) responded, but they know we're watching.
 
 feel free to use any and all of these questions that strike your 
 fancy or use them as inspiration for your own.
 
                                 *****
        
    1.  would you be willing to state, in writing, that if you are
        publicly demonstrated to have violated your oath of office
        you would resign and never run for office again?
        
    2.  under what circumstances do the rights of the group come
        before the rights of the individual?
        
    3.  would you support a city charter amendment prohibiting the
        city government, its officials, agents, and employees from
        initiating force against any human being for any reason?
        
    4.  please put the following list in order of precedence (from
        lowest to highest): a) city ordinance, b) city resolution, 
        c) state law, d) federal statute, e) u.s. constitution, 
        f) state constitution.
        
    5.  do you believe that it's appropriate for any city official or
        employee to be paid more than his or her average private
        sector constituent?
        
    6.  do you believe that involuntary contributions are a legitimate
        means of funding council programs?
        
    7.  would you support a program recognizing the right of
        taxpayers to "earmark" their taxes (either as "must be used"
        or "must not be used") for specific programs?
        
    8.  in the event that the candidate "none of the above" were to
        win a city election, which option do you believe most
        appropriate? a) the candidate with the next highest vote total
        fills the office. b) a special election is held to fill the 
        office, with none of the previous candidates eligible to run 
        again. c) let the office remain unfilled and unfunded until 
        the next election. d) abolish the office.
        
 please return your questionnaire to: [address of your choice]
 
 a signature and date line were added here.
     
 thank you for taking the time to fill out this questionnaire.
 
                                  ******
 
 the questionnaires were sent with self-addressed, stamped envelopes.
 
 p.s. one person _did_ get a perfect score on the questionnaire, and,
 no, he didn't help write it.
 
 cathy smith
 
 my opinions are, of course, my own.
 
 