
 in article <1993apr5.150031.3123@colorado.edu> ajteel@dendrite.cs.colorado.edu (a.j. teel) writes:
 >
 >	q: do you think that hic et al really believe that the laws
 >that they are trying to get passed are for the good or are they just
 >lying through their teeth and trying to disarm the populace?
 
 i think that hci people honestly believe that passing more gun control
 laws will be in the best interests of public safety.  why do i think
 this?  because i used to buy the hci line.  during my freshman year (1987),
 their line made so much sense -- only people who "need" guns should be
 able to get them, and the people who "need" them are the police and
 other elites.  unfortunately for us, this position is highly emotional
 and not well thought-out.  they never stop to think that hci's position
 basically says that the non-elite are incompetents (that's you and me,
 folks!) and that the second amendment has absolutely nothing to do with
 hunting or other "legitimate" uses (which excludes overthrowing tyrannical
 governments and defending yourself when the police have proven they
 can't protect you).
 
 >	we all know that the end result, regardless of the intention,
 >will be to have a much easier to subdue population for the un/nwo.
 >this is definitely a motivation of many in power, but i wonder to
 >what degree this is planned vs just duped.
 
 every pro-control person i've talked to is always left  stumped when i
 simply argue the facts of gun control (that it has yet to be proven to
 lower crime rates) and weapons terminology (and i'm no expert -- but
 explaining exactly how an "evil" semiautomatic weapon really works
 does wonders).
 
 i hvae personally found well-reasoned arguments to be most effective
 against the emotional pro-control people.  the trick is to get them to
 realize that the second amendment exists not for hunters but for the
 oppressed and the terrorized.
 
 daryl
              daryl biberdorf  n5gjm    d-biberdorf@tamu.edu
                + sola gratia + sola fide + sola scriptura
 