
 i wrote :
   nice strawman indeed.  the discussion is not about whether there were
 tanks
   used in sixties riots; instead, it is about whether those tanks fired
 their
   main guns in one of those riots.  you claim they did.  that claim is
   ludicrous.
 
 awesley replied:
      i repeated what i had been told, under what context i had heard it,
   supporting the claim that tanks were indeed used in detroit in 67.
 
 the issue has never been whether tanks were used in detroit in 1967.  it
 has been whether they fired their main guns.  you did not merely claim that
 tanks were used--you claimed that they fired their main guns to suppress
 sniper fire and that they were "quite" effective at this.  you continue to
 back away from this claim and defend something else that nobody is
 disputing.
 
 awesley went on:
   i
   spent a few minutes in a library today -- found their computer was
   down and they don't have a card catalog.  anyway, it took about 10
   minutes to find this in _nightmare in detroit, a rebellion and it's
   victims_ by sauter and hines, on page 133, telling of the death of
   tonia blanding, age 4.
    
         "when the tank was fired upon by snipers it turned in the direction
   the shots came from. [...] the fifty-caliber machine gun mounted on the
   tank belched fire into the buildings.  after a short round into the front
   of the buildings, the tank guns spit again, tearing apart huge holes out
   of the side of the apartment."
   
        well, it's not the main gun.  
 
 "well, it's not the main gun."  gee, that's only the entire point.  are you
 now going to admit that you were wrong?
 
 i wrote:
   will i see any pictures of tanks firing their main
   guns?  will i see pictures of buildings damaged by the shells?  will i
 read
   the reports of the tank fire?  i'll bet you dollar to doughnuts i won't. 
   it will take more than second-hand accounts from a few old national guard
   sergeants shooting the shit to convince me that tanks shelled american
   cities in the sixties.
 
 awesley replied:
     well, if you bothered to read them, it wouldn't take long at all to
   find reports of tank * fire * -- although not necessarily of the main
   guns.
 
 i will never read of tanks firing their main guns in detroit in the '67
 riots.  there is simply no way that such an event could have taken place
 without it being common knowledge even 26 years later.  the american
 military firing shells from tanks in american cities on blacks would have
 been *big* news.
 
 awesley goes on:
   you can also read of the troops using grenade launchers.
 
 to fire fragmentary grenades?  i doubt that as well.  to fire concussion
 grenades?  perhaps.  to fire tear gas?  certainly.  but you would be
 perfectly willing to let us believe they fired frags, wouldn't you, since
 it makes your other claim seem more plausible.
 
 and on:
   i don't
   expect to convince you; you'll have to open your mind and eyes and
 actually
   do a little research to be convinced one way or the other.  let me know
   what you find.
 
 i already know what you found: nothing.  if i claimed that the marines used
 f-4s to launch rockets at buildings in trenton, new jersey would you
 believe me?  would you suspend judgment until you had a chance to research
 it?  or would your bullshit filters kick in?
 
 if tanks had fired their main guns in detroit, people would have been
 screaming about it for the past two and half decades.  i would know about
 it.  unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up. 
 if your mind is open enough to believe that, well, good for you.  i prefer
 to live in reality.   and here in reality, i find it hard to believe that
 those tanks even had any shells, much less fired them.
 
 --john l. scott
 