
 posted by cathy smith for l. neil smith
 
                    letter to a liberal colleague
 
 [author's note:  "adrian" -- name changed to protect the guilty -- 
 and the author are science fiction novelists who once worked with 
 the same editor at a famous new york publishing house.]
 
 dear adrian:  
 
 i'm way behind schedule on my current book again, so this reply to 
 your note -- criticizing the recent magazine interview i gave and 
 generally attacking gun ownership -- will necessarily consist 
 mostly of assertions you're free to believe (or not) i can back 
 with evidence and logic i've neither time nor energy to present 
 now.  i've written fully on this topic before and will again in the 
 future.  when i do, i'll make sure you get copies.  
 
 there are many arguments i might make, from the futility and danger 
 of delegating self-defense to the police (see don kates in the jan. 
 10, 1985 wall street journal) to the real effect of prohibition, 
 shifting consumers from newly-outlawed handguns or semiautomatic 
 rifles to items like sawed-off shotguns or homemade bombs, but i'll 
 limit myself here to commenting on the newspaper clipping you sent 
 with your note.  
 
 first, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
 natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and 
 constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process 
 nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 second, publication of some latter-day "scientific study" doesn't 
 alter the fact that the gun prohibitionists i discussed in my 
 interview -- annoying you so much in the process -- were lying.  
 
 third, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
 natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and 
 constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process 
 nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 fourth, as often happens with these things, the "study" doesn't 
 support the gun prohibitionists' original numerical contentions 
 anyway, but simply adds a new layer of spurious claims to an older 
 body of lies, omissions, and distortions.  
 
 fifth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
 natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and 
 constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process 
 nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 sixth, the fact that gun prohibitionists have been caught lying on 
 countless occasions (carl bakal, author of no right to keep and 
 bear arms, even confessed to it publicly) makes the value of this 
 present "study" dubious, to say the least.  
 
 seventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is 
 a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, 
 and constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic 
 process nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 eighth, given your own lifelong service as a federal bureaucrat 
 (not to mention the cynical sophistication of your fiction), you 
 should be better aware than most people how "progress" -- in 
 designing "studies" to prove whatever you want -- outstrips our 
 ability to collect meaningful data.  a case in point we might agree 
 on is the fact that it took another kind of prohibitionist 20 or 30 
 years to create "studies" "proving" that pornography causes crime.  
 more naive (and probably more honest) efforts in the 50s and 60s 
 clearly indicate the contrary.  
 
 ninth, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
 natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and 
 constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process 
 nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 tenth, another reason to doubt all such "studies" is that human 
 behavior (as the austrian school of economics demonstrates) is far
 too complex and unpredictable to be meaningfully quantified.  the 
 attempt to do so -- and then create public policy based on the 
 resulting pseudo-information -- is wrecking our civilization.  
 
 eleventh, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is 
 a natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, 
 and constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic 
 process nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 twelfth, the "study" is also worthless because it incorporates 
 figures for suicide, which is not necessarily a tragedy but 
 basically another individual right, sometimes with ancillary social 
 benefits.  if anything, perhaps suicide intervention should be a 
 criminal offense.  
 
 thirteenth and finally, the national rifle association officials 
 quoted in the article, whatever their shortcomings (and they are 
 many), are correct in this instance:  the "study" is meaningless 
 because the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
 natural, fundamental, and inalienable human, individual, civil, and 
 constitutional right -- subject neither to the democratic process 
 nor to arguments grounded in social utility.  
 
 and because of that, adrian, even if the "study" were valid, it 
 wouldn't deter me from a lifelong personal objective of seeing that 
 anyone can own any weapon he or she prefers and carry it however, 
 whenever, and wherever he or she desires without asking anybody's 
 permission. in this i'm ably assisted by gun prohibitionists 
 themselves, whose yawping invariably moves previously unarmed 
 people to go out and buy their first gun "while they still can".  
 before the '68 gun control act, most of the "shooting fraternity" 
 viewed handguns (incorrectly, as it turned out) as inaccurate, 
 ineffective toys.  there probably weren't six million of them in 
 the whole country.  now, thanks to kennedy, metzenbaum, the bradys, 
 and their ilk -- america's greatest sporting goods sales team -- we 
 probably manufacture at least that many every year.
 
 the fascinating datum is that handgun control, et al. are perfectly 
 aware of this -- so i guess you'll have to ask them yourself what 
 their real motives are.  
 
 look:  gun-making isn't an arcane or difficult art (and by the way, 
 it's easier to make a fully automatic weapon than a semiautomatic; 
 the fact that i can still obtain my own weapon of preference, the 
 self-loading pistol, is the only thing which keeps me from pursuing 
 this further).  even if it were difficult, there are already a 
 quarter billion firearms in america, with an estimated "half life" 
 of 1000 years -- possibly more for stainless steel.  guns are gonna 
 be around a long time, adrian, whether you like it or not.
 
 as for me, to paraphrase elmer keith, regardless of what the law 
 provides or any court decides, i'm always going to be armed.  and i 
 will always work to see that others are, as well.  the bad news is 
 that there are thousands more -- perhaps even hundreds of thousands 
 -- where i come from.  we can't be stopped by passing laws, we can 
 only be forced to arm ourselves and others secretly and -- given 
 both the practical and alleged differences between full automatics 
 and semiautomatics -- perhaps more efficiently.  
 
 so what's the point?  
 
 l. neil smith
 author:  the probability broach, the crystal empire, henry martyn, 
 and (forthcoming) pallas
 lever action bbs (303) 493-6674, fidonet: 1:306/31.4
 libertarian second amendment caucus
 nra life member
 
 my opinions are, of course, my own.
 
 