
 
 |	firearms tend to fall into this low dollar/pound area.
 |	it would not be economic to smuggle them in. all production
 |	would have to be local. there are not all that many people
 |	who have both the skill and motivation to assemble worthwhile
 |	firearms from scratch. high-ranking crime figures could
 |	obtain imported uzis and such, but the average person, and
 |	average thug, would be lucky to get a zip-gun - and would
 |	pay through the nose for it. 
 
 this is not borne out of reality; the old soviet union had a very
 serious domestic handgun and submachinegun trade, guns that were
 of commercial grade because they were produced in honest-to-goodness
 machineshops. why would all production have to be local; don't we
 have a road system that is the envy of the world?
 
 i seem to recall incidents in the past where chinese entreprenaurs
 attempted to smuggle ak-47s (semi-autos) into this country to
 get around import number limitations (may have been gunweek where
 i read that years ago...)
 
 any person with high-school drafting skills and vocational school
 machineshop training could produce a submachinegun. you talk about
 the average person not being able get even a zip-gun; well now, think
 of all that private cnc controlled machinery that is not being used for
 3 shifts a day; do you think that if guns were being sold on the
 black market for say, $150, an enterprising mechanical engineer
 could be using that machinery to produce workable submachineguns
 for sale? after all, gunweek had an article and pictures on how batf
 was looking for the manufacturer of quite efficient silencers that
 were of commercial quality and finish.
 
 look at it this way, 25% of the u.s. households have a handgun. say
 at least half of those keep one for self-defense. you are talking a
 potential market of of tens of millions of people who would seek
 firearms for the purpose of self-preservation. only a fool would
 believe that market would not be filled, regardless of government
 prohibitions.
 