
 in article <1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu> jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes:
 >you are loosing.
 >
 >there is no question about it. 
 >
 >of those who vote, your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
 >how hard you try, public opinion is set against the rkba. 
 
 not so.  surveys have shown while the public thinks certain types
 of gun control may be acceptable they do believe they have an
 individual right to keep and bear arms, and that the police should
 not have /discretion/ over who may and may not own firearms.
 
 >this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration, your
 >rkba will be null and void.
 
 by the end of the clinton administration a lot of things will be
 screwed up.  hell, we'll probably be just like england.
 
 > tough titty.
 
 "tough titty" ?  my how eloquent you are.
 
 as for your claim, i think clinton has a big fight ahead of him if
 he thinks he's going to pass some comprehensive gun legislation.
 he will sign the brady bill if it gets to his desk.  we will do
 whatever we can to either keep that from happening, or modify it
 such that it is acceptable to us.
 
 >you had better discover ways to make do without firearms.
 
 sorry, that's not possible.  and that's why we won't give them up
 either.  legally or illegally, american's will keep their firearms.
 the number of unregistered weapons in new york city is in the millions.
 there aren't even close to that number of violent criminals there.
 
 >the number of cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause.
 
 if the gov't was serious about stopping violent crime they would
 keep violent criminals in jail for a long long time where they
 belong instead of letting them out on early release.
 
 >there is nothing you can do about it.
 
 hey, we can go into politics too if we feel like it.
 
 > those who live by the sword shall die by it. 
 
 i don't believe this one bit.
 
 >the press is against you, the public (the voting public) is against
 >you, the flow of history is against you ... this is it !
 
 snore.  like i take advice on the rkba from a brit.  no way.
 
 >surrender your arms. soon enough, officers will be around to collect
 >them. resistance is useless.
 
 you watch too much "star trek".  actually, this is an understandable
 attitude from a brit; you are a subject of the state.
 
 >they will overwhelm you - one at a time.
 
 not necessarily.  there are ways of resisting oppression without
 getting caught by the gov't.
 
 >your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
 >immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'. 
 
 the "abstract criminal" like the ones who killed a relative of mine
 while she was working in a carry-out.
 
 >too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
 >are passe'.
 
 while undesirable, they are sometimes unavoidable.  if you don't want
 to resist a criminal attack by all means do nothing.  i will (a) take
 my chances resisting violent attack, and (b) stand a better chance of
 being unharmed than someone who does nothing.
 
 >avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
 >be as safe as possible. such as it is ...
 
 what a joke.  criminals want a disarmed population.  how can you keep
 criminals from preying on us after our best means of self defense is
 taken away ?
 -- 
 larry cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com
 