
 hi. i've just finished reading s414, and have several questions about
 the brady bills (s414 and hr1025).
 
 1. _are_ these the current versions of the brady bill?
      what is the status of these bills?  i've heard they're "in committee".
      how close is that to being made law?
 
 2. s414 and hr1025 seem fairly similar.  are there any important
    differences i missed?
 
 3. s414 seems to have some serious loopholes:
   a. s414 doesn't specify an "appeals" process to wrongful denial during
      the waiting period, other than a civil lawsuit(?)  (s414 has an appeals
      process once the required instant background check system is established,
      but not before).
   b. the police are explicitly not liable for mistakes in denying/approving
      using existing records (so who would i sue in "a" above to have an
      inaccurate record corrected?)
   c. s414 includes an exception-to-waiting-period clause for if a person
      can convince the local chief law-enforcement officer (cleo) of an
      immediate threat to his or her life, or life of a household member.
      but s414 doesn't say exactly what is considered a "threat", nor does
      it place a limit on how long the cleo takes to issue an exception
      statement.
 true?  have i misunderstood?  any other 'holes?
 
 4. with just s414, what's to stop a person with a "clean" record from
    buying guns, grinding off the serial numbers, and selling them to crooks?
    at minimum, what additional laws are needed to prevent this?
 
    'seems at min. a "gun counting" scheme would be needed
    (e.g., "john doe owns n guns").  so, if s414 passes, i wouldn't be surprised
    to see legislation for stricter, harder-to-forge i.d.'s plus national gun
    registration, justified by a need to make the brady bill work.
 
 please comment.  i'm mainly interested in specific problems with the current
 legislation--i don't mean to start a general discussion of the merits
 of any/all waiting-period bills ever proposed.
 
 	marks || shepard@netcom.com
 