
 note: these trial updates are summarized from reports in the
 _idaho statesman_ and the local nbc affiliate television
 station, ktvb channel 7.
 
 randy weaver/kevin harris trial update: day 4.
 
 friday, april 16, 1993 was the fourth day of the trial.
 
 synopsis: defense attorney gerry spence cross-examined agent
 cooper under repeated objections from prosecutor ronald
 howen.  spence moved for a mistrial but was denied.
 
 the day was marked by a caustic cross-examination of deputy
 marshal larry cooper by defense attorney gerry spence.  although
 spence has not explicitly stated so, one angle of his stategy
 must involve destroying the credibility of agent cooper.  cooper is
 the government's only eyewitness to the death of agent degan.
 spence attacked cooper's credibility by pointing out discrepancies
 between cooper's statements last september and those made in court.
 cooper conceded that, "you have all these things compressed into
 a few seconds...it's difficult to remember what went on first."
 
 cooper acknowledged that he carried a "9mm colt commando submachine
 gun with a silenced barrel." [i thought a colt commando was a revolver!]
 cooper continued by stating that the federal agents had no specific
 plans to use the weapon when they started to kill weaver's dog.
 
 when spence asked how seven cartridges could be fired by degan's
 m-16 rifle when degan was apparently dead, cooper could not say for
 sure that degan did not return fire before going down.
 
 spence continued by asking with how many agents (and to what extent)
 had cooper discussed last august's events, cooper responded, "if
 you're implying that we got our story together, you're wrong,
 counselor."  spence continued to advance the defense's version of
 the events: namely, that a marshal had started the shooting by
 killing the weaver's dog.  cooper disagreed.
 
 assistant u.s. attorney ronald howen repeatedly objected to spence's
 virulent cross-examination of agent cooper, arguing that the questions
 were repetitive and spence was wasting time.  howen also complained 
 that spence was improperly using a cross-examination to advance the
 defense's version of the events.  u.s. district judge edward lodge
 sustained many of the objections; however, both lawyers persisted
 until judge lodge had the jury leave the room and proceded to
 admonish both attorneys.  "i'm not going to play games with either
 counsel.  this has been a personality problem from day 1, so start
 acting like professionals."
 
 spence told the judge that, "when all the evidence is in, we'll see
 that ... his [agent larry cooper] testimony is not credible, that
 he was panicked and cannot remember the sequence of events." 
 spence continued, "we're going to find...that there is a very unlikely
 similarity - almost as if it had come out of a cookie cutter - between
 the testimony of mr. cooper and the other witnesses."
 
 spence then moved for a mistrial on the grounds that howen's repeated
 objections would prevent a fair trial, "we can't have a fair trial if the
 jury believes i'm some sort of charlatan, if the jury believes i'm
 bending the rules or engaging in some delaying tactic or that i'm
 violating court orders."
 
 judge lodge called the notion that his repeated sustainings of howen's
 objections had somehow prejudiced the jury was "preposterous" and
 denied the motion for a mistrial.  lodge did tell howen to restrict
 his comments when objecting.
 
 the trial resumed with the prosecution calling fbi special agent greg
 rampton.  the prosecution's purpose was simply to introduce five
 weapons found in the cabin as evidence: however, the defense seized
 on the opportunity to further address cooper's credibility.
 
 defense attorney ellison matthews (harris' other attorney) questioned
 rampton about the dog.  rampton stated that there were no specific
 plans to kill the weaver's dog without being detected.  matthews then
 had rampton read  a septtember 15, 1992 transcript in which rampton
 had said that cooper had said that the purpose of the silenced weapon
 was to kill the dog without being detected, if the dog chased them.
 rampton then acknowledged that he believed that cooper had said that,
 but he could not remember when.  he then stated that, "i did not conduct
 the primary interview with deputy cooper, but i have had conversations
 with him since the interview was conducted."
 
 monday, april 19, 1993 will begin the fifth day of the trial.  scheduled
 is the continued cross-examination of fbi agent greg rampton.
 
 
 