
 jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu wrote:
 : you are loosing.
 : there is no question about it. 
 : of those who vote, your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
 : how hard you try, public opinion is set against the rkba. 
 
   care to show some *real* numbers instead of something hci make up?
   i thought so, all "foaming at the mouth" shouting but nothing is 
   ever said...
    
 : this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration, your
 : rkba will be null and void. tough titty.
 
   well, we'll just have to wait and see about that, won't we?  or are
   you quite satisified with living in your little fantasy?
  
 < snip >
 : cases of firearms abuses has ruined your cause. there is nothing you
 < snip >
 : the press is against you, the public (the voting public) is against
 : you, the flow of history is against you ... this is it !
 
   not true, it is only those who are ignorant and are afraid to understand,
   accept, and deal with the real problems behind this violent society 
   who are proposing gun control as a band-aid solution.  may be i should 
   refresh your memory with a quote from prez. clintion? 
 
     "it's the criminals, stupid!"  
 
   hey, why is he cutting the budget for more prisons? may be someone need 
   to remind him of what he promised...on second thought, why bother...
 
 : surrender your arms. soon enough, officers will be around to collect
 : them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you - one at a time.
 : your neighbors will not help you. they will consider you more if an
 : immediate threat than the abstract 'criminal'. 
 
   oooh, waco ii, coming to your living room soon...  when was the last
   time you turned off your tv?  can't remember?  i thought so...
 
 : too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
 : are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
 : be as safe as possible. such as it is ...
 
   wait, i got it, this is a late april fool post, right?  i didn't
   think anybody is stupid enough to post something like this...good one
   guys, this group was getting boring without holly and susan. 
 
 --francis chiu, professional student, programmer, tax payer. 
 
 