
 in article <1993apr18.000152.2339@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu> jrm@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu writes:
 >you are loosing.
          ^^^^^^^
 >there is no question about it. 
  
 you can't spell. there is no question about it.
 
 >of those who vote, your cause is considered an abomination. no matter
 >how hard you try, public opinion is set against the rkba. 
  
 we must be reading different public opinion polls. i agree that the
 misguided public would like to see assault weapons banned (mainly because
 they are being lied to by the media about the frequency of their use
 in violent crime ... ~1%), but if public opinion were so dead-set
 against the rkba you can bet that idiots like metzenbaum and schumer
 would be seeing their foolish bills getting passed through congress
 a lot easier than they are. and as governments go broke and can no
 longer protect their citizens you can bet that the american people
 will start to really appreciate the usefulness of firearms. contrary 
 to what you might think, time is probably on our side, not yours.
 
 >this is the end. by the finish of the clinton administration, your
 >rkba will be null and void. tough titty.
  
 yeah, right. don't hold your breath. my condolences on the discovery
 of uncomfortable resilience in your mammary glands, but this has nothing
 to do with the issue at hand.
 
 ... ridiculous tripe deleted ...
  
 >the press is against you, the public (the voting public) is against
 >you, the flow of history is against you ... this is it !
  
 yeah, the liberal press doesn't like us much, but you can't really
 expect coherent thought from them anyway. their opinions are based
 more on a desire to appear politically correct than on facts (which
 are generously provided by the fbi, if they'd bother to put on their
 birkenstocks and go to the library to read them). most of my friends
 are anti-gun, and without exception none of them bases his/her opinions
 on facts. they would rather believe (despite all evidence to the
 contrary) that disarming law-abiding citizens would make the world
 more civilized, when all it really does is make us all sheep. they 
 would rather wallow in their pitiful liberal white guilt about how
 society has driven the criminal to rob, rape, and murder. they 
 support spending millions of public dollars protecting the rights of scum
 who have already demonstrated that they have no regard for society
 or its laws. they ignore the fact that areas with the strictest gun
 control (nyc,dc) have the worst crime and areas with little gun
 control (vt,nh,id) have very little crime in comparison. but they
 have to ignore this because otherwise they would need to confront
 the fact that law-abiding citizens who own guns are not the ones that
 are causing most of the trouble in society. oh no, we certainly can't
 accept that! but i guess i have faith that when crime starts making
 significant inroads into their neighborhoods and starts directly
 hurting them and their families, they will probably whistle a different
 tune. they just better hope it isn't too late then.
 
 >surrender your arms. soon enough, officers will be around to collect
 >them. resistance is useless. they will overwhelm you - one at a time.
  
 hmmm. i wasn't expecting company tonight. i might be able to whip
 up a quick cheese and cracker plate, but they should probably bring
 their own drinks. do i have time to vacuum the rug?
 
 >too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the kkk. violent solutions
 >are passe'. avoid situations which encourage criminals. then you will
 >be as safe as possible. such as it is ...
 
 i'm glad you ended the posting here. your medication seems to have
 worn off ...
 
 -----------------------------------------------------------
 lee gaucher    nra               | my opinions.
 gaucher@sam.cchem.berkeley.edu   | no one else's.
 -----------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 