        <1qjmnuinnlmd@clem.handheld.com>
 date: thu, 15 apr 1993 22:07:22 gmt
 lines: 73
 originator: thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no
 
 
 i hate long postings, but this turned out to be rather lengthy....
 
 
 overall crime rate:
 it fell....just like that...
 
 acquiring weapons in norway:
 you can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in norway, but you must have a 
 permit, and a good reason to get the permit....
 if i would like to have a handgun, i would have to get an gun-licence from 
 the police and to be a member of a gun-club.
 the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and/or
 records of serious mental diseases.
 now, if a got my licence, i would have to be an active member of the gun
 -club for 6 months before i could collect my gun.
 it's a little like getting a drivers licence isn't it ???
 you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to...
 
 use of guns in crimes (in norway):
 some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms'
 for a long time, but these are rather the exeption.
 most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes, and mostly short 
 time befor the crime.
 
 use of knives:
 it is allowed to cary knifes in public, but not in your belt or 'open'.
 you (americans) think it's ok to have a gun, but not to carry it open
 in public -rigth ??
 
 scandinavians are 'aggressive':
 we northeners are not as hot-livered as southeners, but when we decide
 to take action we do.
 ask any historian or millitary with an knowledge of europe....
 (or ask any german who served in norway in ww2.....)
 
 individual vs masses:
 yes the individual is more important than the masses, but only to some
 extent....
 your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses ??
 what happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of 
 all the others ??
 
 
 the issue:
 i believe the issue is guns, and gun-legislation.
 we shouldn't mix weapons and items that can serve as one....
 if i lived in amerika i would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in home.
 but should it have to be like that ??
 do you think it's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) ??
 if you believe it's smart/neccacery to have drivers-licence why do you think
 it should be free to buy guns ??
 
 disclaim-her:
 i'm not a pacifist or anti gun. 
 i would defend my home, loved ones and country, but i don't view guns as
 neccities or toys.
 i have done army service, and have used a variaty of weapons, but wouldn't
 want to have one for self defence or because they 'feel good'....
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	this is not a .signature.
 	it's marly a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
 	and to bring down the evil internet.
 
 
                         thomas parsli
                         thomasp@ifi.uio.no
 