
 [this is a co-authored report from two of us who were there.]
 
 gun owners action league, our state rifle association, started the day
 with a rally in the secluded courtyard behind the statehouse at 9:30.
 it was looking sparse (about 40 people) until the speaker began,
 whereupon about 120 more people followed the loudspeakers from
 wherever they had been lost, and filled out the area something proud.
 
 mike yacino of goal spoke.  one of his best throwaway lines was to
 remind us that all of us holders of carry permits there had been
 checked and certified clear of all crimes by the state; while the
 people in the statehouse behind us only had to be certified clean of
 "election fraud" to hold their jobs.
 
 nancy snow and amos hamburger were busy handing out id buttons and
 sheets describing all the bills to be presented at the hearings, and
 telling people where to find their own representatives (and in too
 many cases, who they were).
 
 mike warned us that the committee was going to suspend its rules and
 discuss a bill that hadn't made it onto the official list.  it seems a
 delegation of students from simon's rock of bard college (alma mater
 of wayne lo, who shot up the place with an sks late last year) was
 being bussed in to testify for a bill to ban all sales of firearms or
 ammo to anyone who is not a state resident.
 
 the hearings were originally scheduled in the (large) gardner
 auditorium at 10:30, but that had been pre-empted by the governor's
 hearings on the framingham eight (women in prison for killing abusive
 husbands, and seeking release).  so we had until 1:30 to buttonhole
 our representatives, after which we would be squashed into an
 inadequate hearing room.
 
 one of my representatives' staffers was somewhat offensively smarmy.
 he said, "oh, it must be gun hearings day again!  the gun lobby is
 always so organized every year."  i got a little pissed, and replied,
 "i'm not from the gun lobby -- i'm from your district."
 
 at 12:30, your second reporter arrived in time to notice a
 demonstration going on in front of the statehouse (where the
 pro-gunners weren't).  randy price from the tv news was there, in his
 mirror reflective shades, talking to one of the anti-gun types, and
 several simon's rock anti-gun "close-the-loophole" protestors.
 (earlier, randy had covered the goal rally.)
 
 the room we had been assigned seated about 50.  remember, there were
 about 160 gun owners there, plus another 20-30 students and teachers
 from bard.  one of us had already reserved a seat; the other never got
 closer than the atrium outside -- and there was a crowd behind him.  a
 cop took up station at the entrance and prevented the rest of the
 crowd from coming in.  soon after the debate started, a loudspeaker
 was set up outside in the hall for the benefit of everyone else.
 
 everyone who was there (inside and outside) got to sign up on a sheet
 saying what their position was on which bills.  most of us signed up
 to "support goal's position" on "all bills."
 
 first, because of their time constraints, public officials got to
 testify.  and first up was the bill that nobody had seen (the students
 had some curfew, i guess).  
 
 currently, massachusetts law allows a non-resident to purchase long
 guns or ammo from a local dealer provided he complies with the laws of
 his own state.  previously, the law was similar, but applied only to
 non-residents from states adjoining massachusetts.  the simon's rock
 folks called the current law a "loophole" and wanted it closed.
 
 two of their reps spoke about wayne lo and his "sks assault rifle."
 the second one, hodgekiss, a co-sponsor, had done his homework so well
 that he kept confusing montana (wayne lo's home state) with missouri,
 and became belligerent when about five gun owners in the gallery
 corrected him after his second muff.  carr, from gloucester, claimed
 that the new bill would put the law back the way it was, but he was
 lying: the new bill allows purchases by non-residents of adjoining
 states only if they have licensing in their own state "as strong as"
 that in massachusetts.  since none of them do, that's that.
 
 some of the things these two said were really offensive.  "in some of
 these other states, anyone can buy a gun as long as he's breathing!"
 (oooooo!)  "we have some very, very good gun laws in massachusetts; if
 only the other states would adopt the same type of laws, we wouldn't
 be having this situation -- but they won't."  (naughty, naughty!)
 
 next up was boston city councilman albert "dapper" o'neill.  he was
 there to testify pro-gun, but in some ways he was a liability.  he's
 reasonably elderly and tends to wander and repeat himself, plus he's
 almost a caricature of a law-n-order politician.  he badmouthed the
 aclu, said violent criminals should be executed, and that if he were
 judge, he'd give arrestees their "last rights" (pun intended) on the
 spot (at which many of the gun owners applauded, which bothered me.)
 he said that all the proposed gun restrictions were a step in the
 right direction -- for the criminals.  he said this four times :-(
 
 two of the bills under consideration would allow police to rescind a
 ccw or fid, and confiscate all your guns, if someone had filed a
 restraining order against you.  (note that the filing of a restraining
 order requires no warrant, no hearing, no evidence, and no conviction
 -- just an accusation.)  senator barrett of reading testified in favor
 of it, and patronized the pro-gunners there several times by saying,
 "i'm sure all the gun owners here will agree with me that we have to
 get these weapons out of the hands of people that our courts have
 convicted."  i haven't seen such a disgustingly disingenuous
 performance since nixon whined that he wasn't a crook.
 
 barrett also spoke in favor of the bill making the fid card renewable
 every five years, instead of permanent as it is now.  the stated
 purpose is to remove fid cards from those who have become ineligible.
 "revenue has nothing to do with it."  (yeah, right.)  apparently, some
 congressmen think we're stupid enough to swallow the argument that
 it's preferable to process 1.6 million renewals every cycle in the
 vague hope of catching a recent felon than to simply take the goddamn
 card away from a criminal at conviction time.  as usual, hassle the
 law-abiding instead of the crook.
 
 the two co-chairs of the committee were rep. caron and sen. jujuga.
 jujuga didn't say much (he was a co-sponsor of both "restraining
 order" bills) but caron struck me as a sharp guy that wouldn't let any
 bad logic or lies on the part of either side to go unchallenged.  (he 
 was a co-sponsor of one of the "restraining order" bills as well.)  one
 of the younger reps on the committee (forgot his name) was
 vociferously pro-gun, somewhat embarrassingly so.  his heart was in
 the right place, but his arguments seemed to be confined to, "every
 year it's the same damn thing, you come in here with this crap..."
 it's nice to have a friend on the committee, but he could have been
 more effective.
 
 at about 3:00, it was clear that the hall-jam couldn't continue.
 someone came out of another meeting hall and yelled at the cop because
 the loudspeaker was disturbing their meeting, so the loudspeaker was
 disconnected.  so they found a bigger hall upstairs.  one of us had
 to leave to catch his charter bus, and so missed the "public"
 testimony; the other got a seat this time.
 
 caron began by talking about how he got his fid 16 years ago, left the
 state, and then returned without notifying them of his address change.
 he complained that the state record system was not up-to-date and that
 his pd back in his city of birth still thought he lived there.  great
 quote: "if you purchase a gun today, it will not get into the state
 computer system until 1999."  (this was also an argument he used
 against the renewable fid card.)
 
 testimony was heard from several "battered women," one of whom had
 been attacked by some guy in his 20's who had an fid card because he
 got it when he was 15 or thereabouts.  they used a lot of emotion and
 said how they were scared of these men.  a staffer of attorney general
 harshbarger testified in favor of this anti-gun bill, saying how
 50,000 restraining orders were granted last year, and how these women
 needed to be protected.  caron noted that a restraining order was
 granted for 10 days, and then a hearing was held to determine whether
 the order would be extended to a year.  he asked whether she would be
 satisfied if the fid were revoked at the time of this hearing rather
 than after the initial issuance of the fid.  she gave some long
 rambling circumlocution in response.
 
 then testimony against the bill was heard.  mike yacino (who looks
 something like einstein) got up and made the point that restraining
 orders were issued on too little evidence, that judges like to issue
 restraining orders just to let things cool off no matter who they
 think is right (man or woman), and that the hearings for restraining
 orders are lightning sessions with little time to consider facts.
 atty. karen mcnutt spoke with him a few times during his testimony.
 
 other pro-gunners got up to testify.  one said he had had to file a
 restraining order against a tenant to clear her out, and that she
 countered by filing one against him!  he noted that this would have
 allowed the state to confiscate his guns if the new bill became law.
 one of the junior reps noted that "this is america" and we have to be
 certain that individual rights are respected.  senator jujuga
 reiterated this, saying that "people who abuse smaller people can go
 to hell as far as i care, but we have to be careful about equating
 conviction with a restraining order."  (point and match, senator.)
 
 another pro-gunner got up and testified that he didn't know his
 citizenship "expired every 5 years," and that a driver's license was a
 privilege, not a right like the right to keep and bear arms.
 
 a third got up and said the problem was with the criminal justice
 system, and argued in favor of a death penalty bill and public
 hangings.  senator jujuga said he had himself tried to get a death
 penalty bill passed, and joking responded that he, too, favored public
 hangings.  the speaker then responded, "i'll make you a deal.  you get
 me the rope, and i'll tie the noose."
 
 next came public testimony on the simon's rock bill.  a teacher
 testified that she had been the teacher of wayne lo, and that "he
 wouldn't have been able to shoot people inside a building while he was
 outside" without his evil gun.  she said that the "loophole" should be
 closed to prevent something like this from "ever happening again".
 
 four or five other kids testified in favor of this bill, one of
 spilling tears for the good legislators.  one of the students actually
 shot by wayne lo was also there.  many of them had t shirts on,
 saying, "as long as one person can buy a gun in anger, none of us are
 safe -- support gun control."  the committee was reluctant to grill or
 correct the kids, except for caron, who corrected one student who had
 claimed that anyone could apply for an fid.  "only residents can get
 fid's," he said.  (how much do you want to bet that this kid had no
 idea he had been conned into testifying for a bill that would cut
 out-of-staters completely off?)
 
 yacino and mcnutt spoke again, this time noting that the bill as
 written would affect both ammo and all guns possessed by
 out-of-staters.  karen also noted that hunters in ct, nh, and vt could
 be put away for a year if they wandered across the ma boundary
 somewhere in the woods and got challenged by game wardens.  yacino
 underscored the fact that lo could have gotten an fid as a resident
 student -- and, hell, even an ccw, as he had no criminal or mental
 record.
 
 one junior rep was upset that it would take ma residents longer to buy
 a gun than out-of-staters, and thought it was "elitist".  another
 (caron?) said that we need the protection of preventing non-residents
 from buying without an fid because only two other states in the union
 had "fid-type" cards, so complying with all the laws of one's home
 state was "not enough."  one pro-gun speaker replied that this
 resembled a mother watching her son in a marching band and exclaiming,
 "everyone's out of step but johnny!"
 
 all the bard college people were filing out as the pro-gun testimony
 for this bill was made, and thus only pro-gunners were around when the
 other bills came under consideration.  the main bills remaining (and
 goal's position) were:
 
 o  h.4375 and four others: notify police chiefs so they can pull 
    licenses when a holder is convicted (strongly supported)
 
 o  h.1732: require trigger locks on all handguns sold (opposed)
 
 o  h.962: require trigger locks on all loaded firearms (strongly
    opposed)
 
 o  h.1350: allow every municipality to enact their own gun laws 
    (opposed)
 
 o  h.1731: fund bullet-proof vests for municipal police (supported)
 
 o  s.1097: state constitutional amendment for the rkba (supported)
 
 o  several on police discretion in the issuance of fid cards (opposed)
 
 o  several altering non-resident license conditions (supported)
 
 o  h.1135: ban damn near all guns everywhere in the state (guess!)
 
 some of these took only 30 seconds to consider, as the remaining
 pro-gunners raised hands in unison either for or against them.
 
 mike yacino noted that, besides the danger in screwing with a trigger
 lock on a loaded gun, that bill would make it illegal for a licensee
 to carry his concealed handgun unless it were locked.
 
 caron blew right through h.1350 when he saw that we opposed it.
 again, he brought up the state's archaic records capability and said,
 "this would create hundreds of different licensing systems."
 
 the session ran late -- since it was the last scheduled hearing, it
 could not be adjourned until everyone who wanted to had testified.  it
 ended at about 6:30.
 -- 
 
 cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com   --if you believe that i speak for my company,
 or cdt@vos.stratus.com        write today for my special investors' packet...
 
 