
 aclu official policies.
 
 policy 18, for example, opposes rating systems for motion
 pictures: "industry sponsored ratings systems create the
 potential for constraining the creative process and thus
 contracting the marketplace of ideas. despite the stated goal of
 providing guidance to parents, experience has shown that ratings
 inevitably have serious chilling effects on freedom of
 expression."
 
 in regards to the pledge of allegiance, the aclu states in its
 policy 84: "the insertion of the words `under god' into the
 pledge of allegiance is a violation of the constitutional
 principle of separation of church and state."
 
 policy 120 states that, "military conscription under any
 circumstances is a violation of civil liberties and
 constitutional guarantees." the aclu objects to the draft even
 during wartime because of the "anti-democratic power it gives
 government to wage war without support of the people."
 
 policy 125 states, "the aclu calls for a broad-based inquiry into
 war crimes within the widest possible definition of war crimes
 against humanity, and crimes against the peace, focusing upon the
 actions of the united states military and other combatants
 against the people of south vietnam, laos, cambodia, and north
 vietnam."
 
 policy 133 states, "the aclu recognizes that us government
 reliance upon nuclear weaponry as a dominant element of foreign
 and domestic policy, while propounded as a defense of democracy,
 is in fact a great threat to civil liberties. four decades of
 adherence to this policy has fundamentally altered the nature of
 our constitutional democratic process and poses a paramount
 threat to our civil liberties."
 
 policy 217 objects to roadblocks "where drivers are stopped for
 sobriety tests" because they "violate fourth amendment
 principles." 
 
 policy 242 states the following on criminal
 sentencing: "the most appropriate correctional approach is
 reintegrating the offender into the community, and the goals of
 reintegration are furthered much more readily by working with the
 offender within the community than by incarceration. probation
 should be authorized by the legislature in every case; exceptions
 to the principle are not favored, and any exceptions, if made,
 should be limited to the most serious of offenses, such as murder
 or treason."
 
                                 bill vojak
                                 vojak@icebucket.stortek.com
 				nra, ila,
                                 colorado firearms coalition
 ------------------------------------------------------------
 the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather not!)
 the cbs nightly propaganda with dan rather. (rather biased!)
 ------------------------------------------------------------
 
 