
  dennis deconcini, 1982
  
 ...in these and similar areas, the
 bureau has violated not only the dictates of common sense, but of 5
 u.s.c. sec 552, which was intended to prevent "secret lawmaking" by
 administrative bodies.
    these practices, amply documented in hearings before this sub-
 committee, leave little doubt that the bureau has disregarded
 rights guaranteed by the constitution and laws of the united
 states.
    it has trampled upon the second amendment by chilling exercise
 of the right to keep and bear arms by law-abiding citizens.
    it has offended the fourth amendment by unreasonably search-
 ing and seizing private property.
    it has ignored the fifth amendment by taking private property
 without just compensation and by entrapping honest citizens with-
 out regard for their right to due process of law.
    the rebuttal presented to the subcommittee by the bureau was
 utterly unconvincing. richard davis, speaking on behalf of the
 treasury department, asserted vaguely that the bureau's priorities
 were aimed at prosecuting willful violators, particularly felons ille-
 gally in possession, and at confiscating only guns actually likely to
 be used in crime. he also asserted that the bureau has recently
 made great strides toward achieving these priorities. no documen-
 tation was offered for either of these assertions. in hearings before
 batf's appropriations subcommittee, however, expert evidence
 was submitted establishing that approximately 75 percent of batf
 gun prosecutions were aimed at ordinary citizens who had neither
 criminal intent nor knowledge, but were enticed by agents into
 unknowning technical violations.
  
 ( exerpt from: 97th congress; 2d session   committee print
      t h e   r i g h t   t o   k e e p   a n d   b e a r   a r m s
                                 report
                                 of the
                    subcommittee on the constitution
                                 of the
                       committee on the judiciary
                          united states senate
                         ninety-seventh congress
                             second session
                              february, 1982
         printed for the use of the committee on the judiciary
                     u.s. government printing office
 88-618 o
                         washington : 1982
  
  
 letter to constituent: april 1993
  
  
 thank you for contacting me regarding the bureau of alcohol, tobacco,
 and firearms (atf), which is the federal law enforcement agency with
 jurisdiction over firearms violations and regulations.
  
 it has been my experience as chairman of the appropriations
 subcommittee on treasury, postal service and general government which
 funds atf, that atf is one of the most competent and highly
 professional law enforcement agencies in the federal government.
 the agents of atf have proven their value again and again in
 successful, legal operations to curb the unlawful possession and use
 of firearms, especially in the area of  drug-related crimes.  it
 enforces the armed career criminal act which calls for mandatory
 minimum sentences for repeat felons using firearms to carry out  an
 illegal activity.  the bureau has made itself a key component in
 preventing gang related violence, also, both by educating at-risk
 youth to the dangers of gang membership as well a s by depriving known
 gangs from access to weapons.
  
 the waco, texas case involved the execution of search warrants by atf
 on the branch davidians for illegal firearms and explosives possession
 (automatics, semi-automatics, and machine-guns, in addition to bombs
 and other explosives.)  in virtually every gun case, atf is asked to
 trace weapons through its' national firearms tracing center, where
 they keep all dealer and federal firearms license information.  atf
 is the federal governments' firearms expert and routinely works with
 state and local police to execute warrants.  atf, working with state
 and local law enforcement in texas and the u.s. attorneys' office
 felt it was necessary to execute these warrants in order to legally
 establish that a crime had been committed and conclude a long and
 thorough investigation of illegal gun and explosives held by members
 of the branch davidians.  in addition, atf carefully selected a
 sunday morning, knowing from their source, inside, that the men would
 be separated from the women and children and not in the area where
 it was known that the illegal weapons were stored.
  
 as you may be aware by now, vernon howell a.k.a. david koresh
 spiritual leader of the branch davidians was tipped of the impending
 execution of the search warrants.  unfortunately, atf lost the
 element of surprise and the cult was able to arm themselves  and
 prepare for atfs' entry into the compound.  once a hostage situation
 presented itself, the atf asked the fbi to become involved since the
 fbi is skilled in hostage negotiations.  in addition, and military
 tanks were brought in due to the serious nature of the situation and
 firepower of the branch davidians.
  
 based on what i have learned about atf's role in the branch davidian
 raid, i believe the agency acted responsibly.  i am, however, deeply
 saddened by the loss of lives of the 4 law enforcement agents who
 attempted to enter the compound and the civilian members of the
 cult.  i fully expect the department of  treasury to conduct a
 thorough evaluation with representatives from law enforcement outside
 the department to be headed by the assistant secretary for
 enforcement.  in addition, atf will conduct its' own review of the
 waco operation.  i look forward to reviewing the findings of the
 evaluators and hope this situation in waco will be brought to a quick
 and peaceful conclusion.
  
 sincerely,
  
 dennis deconcini
 chairman
 subcommittee on treasury,
 postal service and
 general government
  
 april 7, 1993
  
 -- 
 larry cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com
 