
 fellow texans and members of crime strike in texas
  
 crime strike in texas has a loosely knit coalition with most
 victims rights groups in texas. we ask that you write a
 letter protesting the release of the following murderer.
  
 this letter should be written to :
  
 raven kazen - victims services
 board of pardons and paroles
 p.o. box 13401 - capital station
 austin, texas 78711
  
 the letter should be written if at all possible on red paper
 as that was agreed on at one of our first meetings . it
 represents the coalition and all of its parts as well as the
 heart ache of those left behind and the blood spilled by
 these criminals. the letter should have only one name on it
 so it can be filed in the folder of that criminal waiting for
 his next try at parole.
  
 list of criminals:
  
 today we have only one parole to protest , on october 4,
 1990, mark steven hughes rendered numerous blows to the head
 of james allen pompa . ten month old james went into a coma
 and died two days later.
  
 on july 8, 1992, mark steven hughes pled guilty to injury to
 a child and received a ten-year sentence. according to texas
 law, mark became eligible for parole on january 4, 1992 --
 six months before he was even sentenced!
  
 would you join us in strongly protesting the release from
 prison of mark steven hughes, who beat a baby to death .
  
 mark steven hughes - beat to death the baby boy of
 russel pompa -- reference mark steven hughes - tdc# 633546
  
  
 mark your envelope   "protest letter" on the front and back.
  
 a typical letter is indicated on the next page ---
  
 thank you very much.
  
 irvin wilson - volunteer crime strike texas
  
  
 date: april 13, 1993
  
 raven kazen - victims services
 board of pardons and paroles
 p.o. box 13401 - capital station
 austin , texas 78711
  
 i protest the parole of mark steven hughes tdc#633546, who,
 murdered james son of russel pompa.
  
 he should be kept in prison for his full sentence and not be
 released at any time prior to his full sentence for any
 reason.
  
  
 irvin wilson
 houston, texas
  
 -- 
 larry cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com
 