
 
 a few comments on the atf's botched handling of this case:
 
 1. attempting to storm the compound in broad daylight?  the explanation
    we were given (at least at one point) was that they thought the cult
    members would be at religious services.  my only comment on this bit
    of idiocy is that if you're going to operate as a quasi-military unit,
    you'd better understand basic military tactics.  one cardinal rule
    is that only a fool plans an operation where if one assumption is
    incorrect, the operation will fail disastrously.
 
 2. we were told that atf got four agents killed because they were
    outgunned, they didn't expect such heavy resistance.  when
    questioned about why such an overwhelming military-style assault
    was planned, we were told that it was because the cultists were
    thought to be heavily armed.  can you say contradictory?  i knew
    you could!
 
 3. the batf has had a bad reputation for years as a bunch of arrogant,
    hotdoggers.  i was talking to relatives a couple of weeks ago and
    referred to them as a bunch of crockett and tubbs wannabes.  i'm
    more than ever convinced that's right on target.  an anecdote not
    related to the waco fiasco is that apparently the batf screwed up
    some of the evidence in the world trade center bombing.  there's
    now an excellent chance some of the forensic evidence gathered by
    the fbi will not be admissible in court.  this is not hearsay.  i
    was told this by a relative of my wife's who happens to be an fbi
    agent.  his opinion of the batf was, ummm, well, let's just say
    uncomplimentary.
 
 4. i have *still* not been presented with one iota of evidence that
    the bd's had *any* of the alleged illegal weaponry which was the
    reason for the raid in the first place.  btw, we're *still* hearing
    this justification.  ag reno, on cnn yesterday, made references
    to this issue, without any substantiation.  she also waved around
    the "he's a child abuser and we heard he was beating the children!"
    flag.  sigh.
 
 5. a point re the feds in general: their handling of the whole siege
    reflected a complete lack of understanding of the probable thought
    processes of the cultists.  ag reno said they pushed the button
    because they were afraid a mass suicide was in the offing.  my
    only comment on that is that if the cultists were that close to
    the edge, what the hell did she think their reaction would be to
    an hours-long assault on the compound where holes were punched in
    the walls and cs gas pumped in?  if i were a bd, i'd expect the
    forces of the godless government to assault me at any time.  in
    that light, whether they torched themselves or drank jim jones
    kool-aid is irrelevant.  also, look at how the siege was conducted:
    bright lights, loud rock music, cutting off communications and
    other contact with the outside.  all measures designed to make the
    bd's feel more and more isolated and threatened.  this might have
    been a great strategy - if they were dealing with criminals.  as it
    was, it looks to me like everything they did fed into koresh's
    paranoid delusions.
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 
 #include <std_disclaimer.h>
 
 dan s.
 