
 posted by cathy smith for l. neil smith
 
                            weird science
 
 everyone knows how to tell when a politician is lying:  his lips 
 move.  what may not be equally obvious is that there are 
 politicians and then there are politicians -- and that the phrase 
 "political science" is subject to more than one interpretation.  
 
 years ago, we heard how "scientists" were worried that a new ice 
 age might be coming, and later on that "nuclear winter" -- smoke 
 and dust thrown into the atmosphere by full-scale international 
 unpleasantness -- was a possibility.  something like that may even 
 have killed the dinosaurs.  
 
 what we didn't hear was that no actual data supported any of this, 
 that real-world events (the burning of kuwaiti oil fields) tended 
 to discredit it, that mostly it was propaganda meant to weaken 
 values that made america the most successful culture in history, 
 and that the dinosaurs probably died of something like the plague 
 when continents drifted together, exposing them to new germs.  
 
 we miss a lot like this, unless we listen closely.  prince william 
 sound, site of the famous oil spill, and mount st. helen's weren't 
 supposed to recover from their respective disasters for at least 
 100 years.  that turned out not to be true, although you'd never 
 know it from watching network nightly news or cnn.  it doesn't fit 
 their agenda to inform us that the earth is vast and resilient, and 
 that nature is rougher on herself than we could ever be.  
 
 but for once, the media aren't entirely to blame.  as ignorant of 
 science as they are of everything, they trust "scientists" to 
 unscrew the inscrutable.  the trouble is that today's "scientists" 
 have agendas of their own.  
 
 nobody in government, that wellspring of scientific wherewithal, is 
 going to offer grants to an investigator who states truthfully that 
 there is no respectable evidence for "global warming".  the money 
 and power for bureaucrats and politicians lie in mass transit, and 
 they hate the automobile -- blamed as a major cause of the mythical 
 crisis -- as a source of privacy and freedom they find intolerable.  
 
 the same appears true of "acid rain", a deliberate hoax cooked up 
 by the environmental protection agency (which hates private 
 industrial capitalism almost as much as it does your car) and 
 foisted on real scientists through trickery which has depended on 
 specialists in different fields not talking to each other much.  
 
 the list goes on, always with a common, disreputable thread.  
 "ozone depletion", for which evidence is even more suspect and 
 contradictory than for acid rain or global warming, is no more than 
 a last, desperate attempt to indict private capitalism in an era 
 when state central planning and the command economy have failed and 
 can only find this final, withered leg to teeter on.  
 
 decades of anti-nuclear alarmism, resting on foundations of myth 
 and panic-mongering, have failed to erase the fact that nuclear 
 power is the safest, cleanest, most efficient source of energy 
 known to mankind -- and more to the point, that the greater amount 
 of energy there is available to any individual in society, the 
 freer that individual -- and his society -- become.  
 
 honest studies on the effects of individual gun ownership and 
 self-defense on crime -- conducted by investigators who began as 
 ideological opponents to those concepts, but which show massive 
 reductions in the latter to be the result of the former -- have 
 been suppressed, most recently by the california state government.  
 
 and what the media didn't say about recent epa "discoveries" on the 
 effect of "secondhand smoking" is that, although some harm to non-
 smokers may have been detected, it was less (by an order or two of 
 magnitude) than that associated with frying bacon a couple times a 
 week or keeping a pet bird.  it's enough to make you wonder whether 
 there was ever anything to the claim that smoking causes cancer.  
 
 that, of course, is the real threat represented by politically 
 correct science.  the world is a dangerous place.  it would be nice 
 to know the hazards.  i've never believed smoking to be a healthy 
 practice, but, given a lack of credibility on the part of today's 
 science, how am i to decide what to do about it?  nicotine is 
 highly addictive, to that much i can attest from experience.  yet 
 the stress of quitting may be riskier than to continue.  there 
 isn't any way to tell, thanks to the corrupting influence of 
 government money on the scientific establishment.  
 
 two centuries ago, the founding fathers spared us certain agonies 
 to which every other nation in the world has been subject at one 
 time or another, by creating a legal barrier between politics and 
 religion.  each time some short-sighted individual or group has 
 tried to lower the barrier (most recently over the issue of 
 abortion), blood -- real human blood, hot and smoking in the street 
 -- has wound up being shed.  
 
 real human blood is being shed over scientific issues, as people's 
 lives are ruined through the loss, to agencies like the epa, of 
 livelihood, or property it may have taken a lifetime to accumulate, 
 to diseases caused by toxins associated with burning fossil fuels 
 for electrical power, or thanks to bans on things like cyclamates, 
 when they die from the effects of obesity.  
 
 what we need now, if we hope to survive as a civilization for two 
 more centuries, is another barrier, a constitutional separation of 
 state and science -- including medicine.  knowledge is valuable; 
 real science won't languish for lack of funding.  the money will 
 simply come from contributors unwilling to pay for lies, and 
 everyone will benefit.  
 
 l. neil smith
 author:  the probability broach, the crystal empire, henry martyn, 
 and (forthcoming) pallas
 lever action bbs (303) 493-6674, fidonet: 1:306/31.4
 libertarian second amendment caucus
 nra life member
 
 my opinions are, of course, my own.
 
 