
 in article <1qvjh9innh4l@hp-col.col.hp.com> dduff@col.hp.com (dave duff)  
 writes:
 > nut case panics!!!!jumps the gun on the net before getting facts straight!!!!
 
 i really don't understand all this!  i watched on satellite network feeds as  
 perhaps 90 people died before my eyes, while the two huey's fanned the flames,  
 and the fbi stopped the firetrucks at the gate. 
 
 something was very wrong with that scene.
 
 perhaps if i'd watched rambo movies, i might've been dulled to the pain of  
 fellow humans dying.
 
 thank god i still feel.  i'm very sorry for you who don't.  for you who think  
 they got what they deserved.  can you really believe that?  even if koresh was  
 the sadistic mad man they said he was, did the others deserve his fate?   if,  
 in fact, he was mad, wasn't that even more reason to believe he duped his  
 followers, and therefore they were innocent, brainwashed, victims?  is there  
 any scenaro that justifies all that death?
 
 and if not, it is clear that the deaths would not have occured if the batf has  
 not fucked up initially, and now the fbi got impaitent and pushed korech over  
 the edge.
 
 and that's if you buy the latest version of the "story" hook, line, and sinker.   
 i have believed all along that they could not let them live, the embarrassment  
 to the batf and the fbi would've been too severe.
 
 remember, this was a suspicion of tax-evasion warrant.  there were no  
 witnesses, except the fbi.  all information filtered through the fbi.  all they  
 had to do was allow one remote controlled pool camera be installed near the  
 building, and the press could've done their job, and would've been able to back  
 the fbi's story with close up video, while incurring no risk to the press.   
 unless they did not want the public to see something.  the complete lack of any  
 other source of information other than the fbi really causes me concern. 
 
 
 sick to my stomach, and getting sicker from all the government apologists
 --
 jmd@handheld.com
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 "i'm always rethinking that.  there's never been a day when i haven't rethought  
 that.  but i can't do that by myself."  bill clinton  6 april 93
 "if i were an american, as i am an englishman, while a foreign troop was landed  
 in my country, i never would lay down my arms,-never--never--never!"
 william pitt, earl of chatham 1708-1778 18 nov. 1777
 