	of denver for the denver community.  the university has neither
 	control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
 sender: usenet@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (netnews admin account)
 organization: nyx, public access unix at u. of denver math/cs dept.
 date: tue, 20 apr 93 19:35:06 gmt
 lines: 40
 
 
 ever since the siege at waco started the fbi spokesman has been
 stressing how unstable and paranoid david koresh was.  he stressed how
 likely it was the the branch davidians would commit mass suicide.  he
 was concerned with the safety of the children.
  
 what did the fbi do to defuse the situation,  did they try to reassure
 koresh?  did the fbi offer medical assistance to the bd?  did the fbi
 offer them a supply of water when the bd pump stoped working?  did the
 permit koresh to communicate with anyone outside the compound?
  
 what the fbi did was harass the branch davidians as much as possible.
 they kept powerful lights shining on the compound, shut off their
 electrical power, put their pump out of action, assaulted their ears
 with loud noise, cut off their communication with the outside and kept
 limiting their permitter.  the stated goal was to put pressure on
 david koresh.
  
 was the fbi attempting to get koresh to surrender or were they hoping
 to get koresh so mad that he and some of his followers would attack
 the the tanks.
  
 it appears that the tactics employed by the fbi did drive koresh over
 the edge.  the blame for the deaths should be shared by both the
 federal experts whose tactics drove koresh over the edge and the fools
 at the atf who planed the raid.
  
 stupidity and incompetence of the batf and the fbi leadership have
 resulted in the needless death of 90 innocent people.
  
 if every thing had gone as planned 90 people would be alive today.
 instead the atf screwed up and caused the death of 90+.  incompetent
 law enforcement can kill you!
  
 
 --
 rod anderson  n0nzo            | the only acceptable substitute
 boulder, co                    | for brains is silence.
 rcanders@nyx.cs.du.edu         |       -solomon short-
 satellite  n0nzo on ao-16      |
 