
 first, i would like to say how much i appreciate having so literate and
 erudite an individual as mr. rutledge with whom to discuss this topic.
 frankly, most anti-rkba posters refuse even to approach the topic of
 the original understanding of the bill of rights as detailed in the
 writings of the era. this  is most refreshing.
 
 second, i must apologize for leaving the discussion for several days.
 my brigade's quarterly drill was this weekend and i needed to attend
 to several matters pertaining to the state militia.
 
 some people seem to feel that the concept of the militia is an anachro-
 nism that is out of place in the 20th century. i'm not sure the swiss
 would agree and i think perhaps a discussion of how the militia, both
 organized and unorganized, fits into the defense plans of my state,
 mississippi. please do not assume that this describes something peculiar
 to one southern state. for instance, the commonwealth of massachusetts
 has a well organized militia which, members report, maintains stocks
 of both riot guns and machine guns. the laws of other states will vary
 but are probably similar.
 
 title 35  of mississippi code defines our militia as "all able-bodied
 citizens of the state between the ages of seventeen (17) and sixty-
 two (62) years...". the militia is divided into 3 classes: the national
 guard, the mississippi state guard and the unorganized militia.  the
 national guard is a strange sort of fish from a constitutional perspective.
 it tries to be both state militia and federal reserve. the discussion
 of this "para-constitutional" arrangement is quite interesting in itself
 but somewhat beyond the scope of this discussion. suffice it that, at this
 date, the national guard has ceased to have any constitutional standing
 as anything but a federal reserve force.
 
 mississippi, and most other states, maintains a purely state organized
 militia. in mississippi this is called the state guard. in other 
 states it may be called something else. the state guard exists as
 a cadre or training corps made up of mostly experienced officers and
 senior ncos who serve as volunteers without compensation. we drill
 on a monthly basis at the company and battalion level, brigade once
 a quarter and have an annual drill of the whole organization. our
 state-authorized cadre strength is 694. this is a skeleton of an
 organization without any flesh. the muscle and sinew when needed will
 come from the unorganized militia.
 
 in time of invasion, insurrection or calamity the governor can order
 the activation of the state guard. when this takes place a call will
 first be made  for volunteers to fill the organization out to either
 its contingency strength of 2194 or full strength of 4910. in the
 event that a sufficient number of people fail to volunteer, the law
 provides detailed instructions for the conducting of a draft of the
 unorganized militia. the size of the state guard is not specified by
 law, but rather by executive order. at one time, the organized militia
 of mississippi consisted of 68 regiments. needless to say, the state
 does not have armories brimming with weapons with which to equip such
 a force. the historical precedent for arming such a force is by use
 of mostly the private arms of the militiamen. 
 
 it is my hope that demonstrates that state militias are far from being
 the long dead anachronisms that some may wish to claim.
 
 >no, i simple stated that the people have a right to "join a well
 >organized militia."  and i have also stated that a militia that
 >meets once or twice a year is clearly "well organized."  and this
 >state of readiness that i have claimed the people have a "right"
 >to, is the same state of readiness expected of the militia as stated
 >by hamilton. 
 
 regarding hamilton: if you take hamilton's opinion as being the sole
 representative of the opinions of the founding fathers, you will have
 chosen a highly skewed sample set. hamilton was on the extreme federalist
 end of the political spectrum. others, such as coxe and henry, can
 be chosen to represent the other end. many contemporaries felt that
 the idea of having a standing army of any sort or even a select militia
 or "train bands" were contrary to the egalitarian nature of the govern-
 ment they were striving to perfect. the compromise reached was to
 provide for a small army, which had to be refinanced every two years,
 and iron-clad protection for the militia, which was to remain ever,
 "terrible and irresistible".
 
 these protections included: state control, not federal; limitation
 of federal utilization of the militia (i.e. execute laws, suppress
 insurrections and repel invasions), and the right to keep and bear
 arms to prevent what the british had tried to do at lexington.
 these limitations eventually proved so onerous to the federal govern-
 ment that they were skirted by the creation of the national guard.
 
 the national guard was created for one very simple reason: the 
 constitutional militia was had proved too unreliable for fighting
 wars of imperial expansion. (e.g. spanish-american war). the
 constitution provided that the militia could only be employed by
 the federal government in very limited purposes. as far back as the
 war of 1812, militia units had refused to leave united states
 territory to attack the enemy. further, there was no constitutional
 authorization for any conscription of anyone into the federal
 military and militiamen were particularly protected. in all wars until
 ww-i every american who left the country under arms was a volunteer.
 when the national guard acts of 1903-1916 required that each new
 member also enlist as a reservest in the army, existing soldiers were
 "grandfathered". at least one of these "grandfathered" individuals
 refused to go to france in 1918 and his refusal was upheld by the
 federal courts.
 
 mr. rutledge has stated that the second amendment applies only to
 members of a "well organized" militia. however, the pre-constitutional
 history of the american militia shows relatively few periods when
 the militia came close to meeting either messrs. rutledge or hamilton's
 definition of "well organized". in the period of peace between the
 french & indian war and the revolution many companies simply stopped
 drilling and had to be reconstituted just prior to the revolution.
 perhaps mr. rutledge would care to argue that those of my ancestors
 who answered the lexington alarm had forfeited their rights because
 their units didn't drill for a few years in the 1760s. i would not
 be so bold.
 
 again, i wish to repeat. the national guard, for all its merits, is
 not the militia described by the constitution  nor by mr. hamilton
 nor by mr. henry nor by mr. coxe. the fact that the federal government
 and many states are delinquent in their attentions to and organizing
 of their constitutional militias  diminishes neither their
 responsibilities nor the rights of the militia as detailed in the
 constitution.
  
 misunderstanding of the nature and purpose of the militia is but one
 error that has crept into modern readings of the constitution. the
 constitution prohibits states from keeping "troops or ships of war
 in time of peace". i have heard some insist this prevents states from
 maintaining a militia, but this comes about because people today do not
 understand the meanings of the words in their 18th century usage.
 today we call any large vessel a "ship" but in the 18th century the word
 described a particular kind of vessel.  a "ship" is a large vessel with
 three or more masts each carrying square rigged sails. a "brig" has two
 masts. in the contemporary usage the states were prohibited only from keeping
 the largest warships of the day, those capable of global operations. today's
 equivalent might be a prohibition on the states' keeping nuclear missiles.
 "troops" at this time meant a full-time professional military organization.
 any study of contemporaneous writings will bear this out. 
 
 in at least one respect, i am in agreement with mr. rutledge; being
 personally involved in the maintenance and advancement of the militia
 as a viable means of defense for a modern society, i am frequently
 both bemused and saddened when friends and associates wax poetic on
 their place in the unorganized militia and become strangely silent or
 scarce when invited to attend a  drill of their state's militia.
 -- 
 donald r. newcomb              * university of southern mississippi
 dnewcomb@whale.st.usm.edu      * this is the way we tax and spend, tax 
 dnewcomb@falcon.st.usm.edu     * and spend. we're democrats in office.
 