
 .acns.colostate.edu> holland@cs.colostate.edu (douglas craig holland) writes:
 >	suspended police officer arrested in revenge triple homicide
 >
 >providence, r.i. (ap) -- a police officer afraid he would be fired for
 >allegedly assaulting a teen-ager walked into an auto body shop wher the youth
 >worked, said "you're going to die" and fatally shot him and two others, police
 >said.
 >a fourth youth was wounded.  a fifth escaped injury by hiding under a car.
 >suspended police officer robert sabetta, 23, of cranston, was arrested at
 >gunpoint over three hours after the shooting at wilson's auto enterprises in
 >foster, a rural town of about 4,000 people in northwest rhode island.
 >						doug holland
 >
 	i think i have updated info on this.  my understandingis that
 former officer cranston approached a teenager who was being questioned
 by another officer.   officer cranston struck teenager a in the head
 with a heavy police flashlight, causing a significant, though not
 life-threatening.  there is no evidence that teenager a was
 doing anything threatening at the time.  teenager a was released
 on bail/recognizance and filed a formal complaint against officer
 cranston.  the police chief suspended cranston pending an 
 investigation into the use of excessive force.  
 	the above is pretty clear... but what seems to have 
 happened is this.  the chief requested cranston's gun, but cranston
 refused to turn it over until the chief went the cranston's home
  to get it.  sources said cranston had always wanted to be
 a cop and was very afraid of loosing his job because of the complaint
 against him.
 	a few days afterward, cranston allegedly walked into 
 wilson's garage, where teenager a and friends were known to
 hang out and work on cars as a hobby.  cranston fatally shot
 teenager a as well as teenagers b and c.  teenager d was shot once
 in the shoulder/chest.  teenager e was working under the car
 and was not noticed by officer cranston.  teenager d went to a home
 and summoned police, who went to wilson's garage and found the 
 3 corpses and one unscathed survivor.
 
 	a few days after his arrest, officer cranston attemped
 to commit suicide in his cell.
 -case kim
 
 
 
 