
 here is a press release from the white house.
 
  president clinton's remarks on waco with q/a
  to: national desk
  contact: white house office of the press secretary, 202-456-2100
 
    washington, april 20 -- following are remarks by president 
 clinton in a question and answer session with the press:
 
 1:36 p.m. edt
 
      the president:  on february the 28th, four federal
 agents were killed in the line of duty trying to enforce the law
 against the branch davidian compound, which had illegally stockpiled
 weaponry and ammunition, and placed innocent children at risk.
 because the batf operation had failed to meet its objective, a 51-day
 standoff ensued.
 
      the federal bureau of investigation then made every
 reasonable effort to bring this perilous situation to an end without
 bloodshed and further loss of life.  the bureau's efforts were
 ultimately unavailing because the individual with whom they were
 dealing, david koresh, was dangerous, irrational, and probably
 insane.
 
      he engaged in numerous activities which violated both
 federal law and common standards of decency.  he was, moreover,
 responsible for the deaths and injuries which occurred during the
 action against the compound in february.  given his inclination
 towards violence and in an effort to protect his young hostages, no
 provocative actions were taken for more than seven weeks by federal
 agents against the compound.
 
      this weekend i was briefed by attorney general reno on
 an operation prepared by the fbi, designed to increase pressure on
 koresh and persuade those in the compound to surrender peacefully.
 the plan included a decision to withhold the use of ammunition, even
 in the face of fire, and instead to use tear gas that would not cause
 permanent harm to health, but would, it was hoped, force the people
 in the compound to come outside and to surrender.
 
      i was informed of the plan to end the siege.  i
 discussed it with attorney general reno.  i asked the questions i
 thought it was appropriate for me to ask.  i then told her to do what
 she thought was right, and i take full responsibility for the
 implementation of the decision.
 
      yesterday's action ended in a horrible human tragedy.
 mr. koresh's response to the demands for his surrender by federal
 agents was to destroy himself and murder the children who were his
 captives, as well as all the other people who were there who did not
 survive.  he killed those he controlled, and he bears ultimate
 responsibility for the carnage that ensued.
 
      now we must review the past with an eye towards the
 future.  i have directed the united stated departments of justice and
 treasury to undertake a vigorous and thorough investigation to
 uncover what happened and why, and whether anything could have been
 dne differently.  i have told the departments to involve independent
 professional law enforcement officials in the investigation.  i
 expect to receive analysis and answers in whatever time is required
 to complete the review.  finally, i have directed the departments to
 cooperate fully with all congressional inquiries so that we can
 continue to be fully accountable to the american people.
 
      i want to express my appreciation to the attorney
 general, to the justice department, and to the federal agents on the
 front lines who did the best job they could under deeply difficult
 circumstances.
 
      again, i want to say as i did yesterday, i am very sorry
 for the loss of life which occurred at the beginning and at the end
 of this tragedy in waco.  i hope very much that others who will be
 tempted to join cults and to become involved with people like david
 koresh will be deterred by the horrible scenes they have seen over
 the last seven weeks.  and i hope very much that the difficult
 situations which federal agents confronted there and which they will
 be doubtless required to confront in other contexts in the future
 will be somewhat better handled and better understood because of what
 has been learned now.
 
      q  mr. president, can you, first of all, tell us why,
 after 51 days, you decided --
 
      q  mr. president, can you describe for us what it is
 that janet reno outlined to you in your 15-minute phone conversation
 with --
 
      the president:  i can't hear you both.  if one will go
 first and then the other.
 
      q  sorry.  can you describe what janet reno --
 
      q  mr. president --
 
      the president:  i'll answer both your questions, but i
 can't do it at once.
 
      q  can you describe what she told you on sunday about
 the nature of the operation and how much detail you knew about it?
 
      the president:  yes.  i was told by the attorney general
 that the fbi strongly felt that the time had come to take another
 step in trying to dislodge the people in the compound.  and she
 described generally what the operation would be -- that they wanted
 to go in and use tear gas which had been tested not to cause
 permanent damage to adults or to children, but which would make it
 very difficult for people to stay inside the building.  and it was
 hoped that the tear gas would permit them to come outside.
 
      i was further told that under no circumstances would our
 people fire any shots at them even if fired upon.  they were going to
 shoot the tear gas from armored vehicles which would protect them and
 there would be no exchange of fire.  in fact, as you know, an awful
 lot of shots were fired by the cult members at the federal officials.
 there were no shots coming back from the government side.
 
      i asked a number of questions.  the first question i
 asked is, why now?  we have waited seven weeks; why now?  the reasons
 i was given were the following:
 
      number one, that there was a limit to how long the
 federal authorities could maintain with their limited resources the
 quality and intensity of coverage by experts there.  they might be
 needed in other parts of the country.
 
      number two, that the people who had reviewed this had
 never seen a case quite like this one before, and they were convinced
 that no progress had been made recently and no progress was going to
 be made through the normal means of getting koresh and the other cult
 members to come out.
 
      number three, that the danger of their doing something
 to themselves or to others was likely to increase, not decrease, with
 the passage of time.
 
      and number four, that they had reason to believe that
 the children who were still inside the compound were being abused
 significantly, as well as being forced to live in unsanitary and
 unsafe conditions.
 
      so for those reasons, they wanted to move at that time.
 the second question i asked the attorney general is whether they had
 given consideration to all of the things that could go wrong and
 evaluated them against what might happen that was good.  she said
 that the fbi personnel on the scene and those working with them were
 convinced that the chances of bad things happening would only
 increase with the passage of time.
 
      the third question i asked was, has the military been
 consulted?  as soon as the initial tragedy came to light in waco,
 that's the first thing i asked to be done, because it was obvious
 that this was not a typical law enforcement situation.  military
 people were then brought in, helped to analyze the situation and some
 of the problems that were presented by it.   and so i asked if the
 military had been consulted.  the attorney general said that they
 had, and that they were in basic agreement that there was only one
 minor tactical difference of opinion between the fbi and the military
 -- something that both sides thought was not of overwhelming
 significance.
 
      having asked those questions and gotten those answers, i
 said that if she thought it was the right thing to do, that she
 should proceed and that i would support it.  and i stand by that
 today.
 
      q  mr. president --
 
      the president:  wait.  go ahead.
 
      q  can you address the widespread perception --
 reported widely, television, radio and newspapers -- that you were
 trying somehow to distance yourself from this disaster?
 
      the president:  no, i'm bewildered by it.  the only
 reason i made no public statement yesterday -- let me say -- the only
 reason i made no public statement yesterday is that i had nothing to
 add to what was being said and i literally did not know until rather
 late in the day whether anybody was still alive other than those who
 had been actually seen and taken to the hospital or taken into
 custody.  it was purely and simply a question of waiting for events
 to unfold.
 
      there was -- i have -- i can't account for why people
 speculated one way or the other, but i talked to the attorney general
 on the day before the action took place.  i talked to her yesterday.
 i called her again late last night after she appeared on the larry
 king show, and i talked to her again this morning.  a president -- it
 is not possible for a president to distance himself from things that
 happen when the federal government is in control.
 
      i will say this, however.  i was, frankly, surprised
 would be a mild word, to say that anyone that would suggest that the
 attorney general should resign because some religious fanatics
 murdered themselves.  (applause.)
 
      i regret what happened, but it is not possible in this
 life to control the behavior of others in every circumstance.  these
 people killed four federal officials in the line of duty.  they were
 heavily armed.  they fired on federal officials yesterday repeatedly,
 and they were never fired back on.  we did everything we could to
 avoid the loss of life.  they made the decision to immolate
 themselves.  and i regret it terribly, and i feel awful about the
 children.
 
      but in the end, the last comment i had from janet reno,
 is when -- and i talked to her on sunday -- i said, now, i want you
 to tell me once more why you believe -- not why they believe -- why
 you believe we should move now rather than wait some more.  and she
 said, it's because of the children.  they have evidence that those
 children are still being abused and that they're in increasingly
 unsafe conditions, and that they don't think it will get any easier
 with time -- with the passage of time.  i have to take their word for
 that.  so that is where i think things stand.
 
      q  can we assume then that you don't think this was
 mishandled in view of the outcome, that you didn't run out of
 patience?  and if you had it to do over again, would you really
 decide that way?
 
      the president:  no -- well, i think what you can assume
 is just exactly what i announced today.  this is a -- the fbi has
 done a lot of things right for this country over a long period of
 time.  this is the same fbi that found the people that bombed the
 world trade center in lickety-split, record time.  we want an inquiry
 to analyze the steps along the way.  is there something else we
 should have known?  is there some other question they should have
 asked?  is there some other question i should have asked?  can i say
 for sure that no one -- that we could have done nothing else to make
 the outcome come different?  i don't know that.  that's why i want
 the inquiry and that's why i would like to make sure that we have
 some independent law enforcement people, not political people, but
 totally non-political, outside experts who can bring to bear the best
 evidence we have.
 
      there is, unfortunately, a rise in this sort of
 fanaticism all across the world.  and we may have to confront it
 again.  and i want to know whether there is anything we can do,
 particularly when there are children involved.  but i do think it is
 important to recognize that the wrong-doers in this case were the
 people who killed others and then killed themselves.
 
      q  mr. president, were there any other options
 presented to you for resolving this situation at any point from
 february 28th until yesterday?
 
      the president:  well, yes, i got regular reports all
 along the way.  there were lots of other options pursued.  if you go
 back -- you all covered it very well.  the fbi -- you did a very good
 job of it.  i mean, the fbi and the other authorities there pursued
 any number of other options all along the way, and a lot of them
 early on seemed to be working.  some of the children got out, some of
 the other people left.  there was a -- at one point, there seemed to
 be some lines of communication opening up between koresh and the
 authorities.  and then he would say things and not do them and things
 just began to spin downward.
 
      whether there were other -- in terms of what happened
 yesterday, the conversation i had with the attorney general did not
 involve other options except whether we should take more time with
 the present strategy we were pursuing -- because they said they
 wanted to do this, because they thought this was the best way to get
 people out of the compound quickly before they could kill themselves.
 that's what they thought.
 
      q  did the government know that the children did not
 have gas masks?
 
      q     congressional hearings once the situation -- are
 you in agreement with that?
 
      the president:  that's up to the congress.  they can do
 whatever they want.  but i think it's very important that the
 treasury and justice departments launch this investigation and bring
 in some outside experts.  and as i said in my statement, if any
 congressional committees want to look into it, we will fully
 cooperate.  there is nothing to hide here.  this was probably the
 most well-covered operation of its kind in the history of the
 country.
 
    (more, more)
  -30-
 