
 oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) writes:
 
 >what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
 >had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
 >compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.
 
 	seal team six should have handled it?  delta force?  the
 batf had more than enough equipment and men.  they did not have
 good intel, but they did have poor planning.  they fucked up.  even
 in just the most basic military sense, they fucked up.  excuses do
 not justify body counts.
 
 >the batf needs more people, better weapons and more armored
 >transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
 >more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
 >do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
 >must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.
 
 	and your excuses fall upon deaf ears when the same batf
 has shown shitty leadership despite more people, better weapons,
 and exclusive use of armor against their targets.  batf is nothing
 more than a private army of the government.  do the agents swear an
 oath, as i did, to uphold the constitution?  you know, that document
 that stipulates the highest law of the land?  if they do, they should
 be up for charges in a court of law.  remember, the law?  that's
 the whole reason for any of this.
 
 >with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
 >more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
 >the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look
 >at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
 >of ours.
 
 	yeah, i've been related to many of them.  this is flame-bait,
 right?  i'm not paying your price.  mind if i sight in my guns on
 your body?  think of it as the price you have to pay that we may all
 live without fear of my making a stray shot.  it's fine and dandy to
 revel in the other guy being the target and your supposed safety.  in
 the military, we called this "chicken shit."  leadership from the rear.
 the war on drugs, despite being a catchy term for nothing more than
 a continuation of policy since before this century, seems to have
 gotten you convinced that my rights aren't worth your good vibes.
 mind if i cut your net access, as well as access to any and all forms
 of expression?  see, you make me nervous, what with you being able
 to influence so many.  i'm sure you can see how this is the price we
 have to pay for freedom and liberty in this country, as well as
 a fair and unbiased judiciary.
 
 >with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
 >mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
 >women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
 >to death 51 days later.
 
 	mind if we include you in the body count?  i'm sure we could
 all file it under "civic improvement" and your life wouldn't have
 been sacrificed in vain.  if you like, you can will your estate to
 defecit reduction, too.  now, when you learn how the law protects, or
 doesn't protect, everybody equally and how our collective boot may
 one day be on your collective throat, perhaps at that time you will
 mature enough to realize just what you're talking about and how
 serious this is.
 
 	next time, include a smiley.  while i hesitate to think that
 you could have meant this seriously, it deserved a small flame anyway.
 
 < dan sorenson, dod #1066 z1dan@exnet.iastate.edu viking@iastate.edu >
 <  isu only censors what i read, not what i say.  don't blame them.  >
 <     usenet: post to exotic, distant machines.  meet exciting,      >
 <                 unusual people.  and flame them.                   >
 