
 oldham@ces.cwru.edu (daniel oldham) babbles:
 
 what happened in waco is not the fault of the batf. if they would of
 had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the
 compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened.
 
 	if they'd gone to the door and knocked on it to serve the
 	warrant, like the sheriff had done 3 other times, they
 	wouldn't have needed to have an initial assault.  but then,
 	herr klinton and attorney gen'l reno wouldn't have been
 	able to have told such heroic stories about how they
 	"protected" the rest of us from a group of people who
 	kept to themselves, miles out in the prairie.
 
 the batf needs more people, better weapons and more armored
 transports. when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use
 more force instead of retreating to a stand off. if you are going to
 do a job then do it right. the batf is there to protect us and they
 must have the proper equipment and people to do the job.
 
 	the batf needs to be disbanded.  this out of control group
 	of rambo wannabees is a danger to the republic.
 
 with the wod and the increased crime in the streets the batf is needed
 more now then ever. if they blast away a few good fokes then that is
 the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country.
 
 	well, i figure you're going to get flamed pretty badly by
 	everybody else for this incredibly stupid statement, so i'll
 	just let it pass for now.
 
 	case western reserve, huh?  do the feds know about that big 
 	stockpile of automatic weapons and crack you have in  your
 	house?  are you the same daniel oldham that lives on orchard
 	drive?  just so they get the address right, that is...
 
 look
 at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country
 of ours.
 
 	well, it used to be a great country.  now i'm not so sure.  
 	i knew a few of those good people who died in wars;  i was
 	in viet nam.  i can assure you, none of us fought to protect
 	the right of the government to attack its own citizens with
 	military force without provocation.  (hint: serving a search warrant
 	is not sufficient provocation to stage a military style assault
 	on a religious group.  at least not here in the us.  maybe in
 	iraq, or syria...)
 
 with the arms build up in waco they needed to hit that compound with
 mega fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few
 women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn
 to death 51 days later.
 
 	this is a joke, right?  or are they really letting fools like
 	you into cwru now?  too bad. used to be a good school.  how'd you
 	get in anyway, did your old man buy a new wing for the library?
 