
 mark 'mark' sachs (mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu) wrote:
 
 : oh? then why did the smoke and flames start from three different places?
 : in particular, three different places where there were no apv's?
 
 the crushed remains of a pressurized propane tank were found in the ruins
 of the bd compound.  the key word is pressurized.  when that baby was 
 crushed, the gas would have gone all over the place.  and when ignited, 
 would look just like the pictures of the explosion we saw on the tv 
 news.  ammo doesn't go up all at once - kind of like fireworks going off.
 propane gas goes off in a big fireball.  gee, that's kind of consistent 
 with what the pictorial history shows.  hmmmmm...
 
 : and if the government did start the fire, then why weren't people trying
 : to get out of the compound?
 
 remember, pressurized gas.  people all over the building.
 conflagration in less than a minute.  huge explosion.  gas masks being
 worn by the inhabitants.  makes a lot of sense that very few of those
 on the inside would even know that the tank was damaged.  if they
 thought it was just a normal fire, they would probably be trying to
 put it out.  then - boom - the fireball.  after that explosion and 
 concussion, i doubt anybody on the inside of the building was capable
 of moving.
 
 : and besides... oh, i don't know why i'm even bothering.
 
 good question.  take an objective look at what happened, listen to the 
 things that the fbi said ("the bd's started the fire."  "the bd's bodies
 were found with gunshot wounds.") that are now being refuted by the 
 evidence being recovered.  seems that the fbi is deliberately making
 statements that have no rational basis in fact, and trying to make
 them sound like fact.  
 
 : i find it tremendously chilling that so many people seem eager to believe
 : a murderous, heavily-armed religious cult, despite much evidence to the
 : contrary. thought experiment: suppose this exact same thing happened under
 : the bush administration. what would your answer be then? would you still
 : prefer to believe the cultists?
 
 yes, i would still believe that the fbi and the batf were on a non-stop
 string of lies and half-truths.  this is consistent with their operations
 on numerous occasions.
 
 and as for the bd's being murderous, they did not cause any problems until
 they were assaulted by the batf.  so now a thought experiment for you:  if
 the batf had never stormed that farm, would four agents and 90 bd's be
 dead today?  
 
 : (no, i don't really expect a response to that challenge.)
 
 : >but then
 : >again, that is how mr. clinton was elected, by people who believe that
 : >his campaign promisses would be respected by him once he got into office.
 
 : um, isn't that how all politicians are elected?
 
 yes.  that is how politicians are elected.  kind of scary, isn't it.  now
 if we as a people actually held mr. clinton to his promises instead of
 apologizing and denying that he ever made them, and actually expected
 accountability by our government, i doubt that debacles like waco would
 happen as often as they do.
 
 : so is there any particular reason the gummint decided to slaughter eighty
 : people? are they, like, just plain evil, or what? did they just wake up
 : one day, stretch and yawn, and throw a dart at a map of the united states
 : to figure out who to oppress that day? i'm eager to know.
 
 acutally, no.  the batf has a rather checkered history of staging raids of
 this sort just prior to the time when their budget comes up for review.  
 oddly enough, their budget was about to be reviewed just two weeks after
 the initial raid on the bd's.  "coincidence?  i think not!"
 
 and as for the fire, what happened was caused by the act of knocking over
 walls with an armored vehicle of destruction.  the fbi tried to convince
 the world it was suicide, but all of the facts that are coming out by
 the investigation of the texas rangers and medical examiners point to 
 a gas explosion and quick fire that decimated all of the occupants of the
 building.  sounds to me like a law enforcement agency that is trying to 
 cover its ass.  
 
 : and does bill clinton have cooler theme music than darth vader? how is he
 : on diabolical laughter? does he look good in a cape? these things must be
 : investigated. you first.
 
 oh, please.  if you want to argue, argue.  if  you merely want to demean those
 who see this differently than you, then please go somewhere else.  
 
 : mark sachs is: mbs110@psuvm.psu.edu
 
 keith marchington
 