
 here's something preston covey (professor of ethics at cmu) wrote:
 
 from: "preston k. covey" <covey+@andrew.cmu.edu>
 subject: gun stats & mortal risks
 date: mon, 15 feb 1993 18:35:05 -0500 (est)
 
 
 folks,
 
 hail from the nether world.  on february 4th, the wall street journal
 carried a front-page article by erik larson entitled "armed force."  i
 felt a reply was in order to his citation of the notorious scare stat
 that "a gun is 43 times more likely to kill than to protect."  i sent
 the following to the wsj.
 
 -----
 
 gun stats & mortal risks
 
 preston k. covey
 
 
 	erik larson~s even-handed article on paxton quigley (~armed force,~
 2/4/93, wsj) cites the world~s most notorious ~statistic~ regarding guns
 in the home:  ~a pioneering study of residential gunshot deaths in king
 county, washington, found that a gun in the home was 43 times more
 likely to be used to kill its owner, spouse, a friend or child than to
 kill an intruder.~  the ~43 times~ stat is everywhere these days;  it
 has grown in media lore like the proverbial urban myth: it was inflated
 by one pugilistic talk-show pundit to ~93.~  given the shock value of
 the finding, the conclusion of the 1986 new england journal of medicine
 (nejm) study is remarkably understated:  ~the advisability of keeping
 firearms in the home for protection must be questioned.~ 
  
 	responsible people should indeed question the risks and benefits of
 bringing a firearm into their home.   but what we need to know is this: 
 what exactly are the risks and benefits?  the nejm testimony is neither
 the whole truth about the benefits nor nothing but the truth about the
 risks.  further, as with motor vehicles, we want to know:  what control
 do we have over the risks and benefits?  and, as with the risks of
 cancer or heart disease or auto accidents:  how can we minimize the
 risks?  like raw highway death tolls, the nejm stat is not very helpful
 here. 
 
 	the nejm finding purports to inform us, but it is framed to warn us
 off.  it is widely promulgated in the media as a ~scare stat,~ a
 misleading half-truth whose very formulation is calculated to prejudice
 and terrify.  the frightful statistic screams for itself:  the risks far
 outweigh the benefits, yes?   what fool would run these risks?   if your
 car were 43 times more likely to kill you, a loved one, a dear friend or
 an innocent child than to get you to your destination,  should you not
 take the bus?  
 
 	uncritical citation puts the good name of statistics in the bad company
 of lies and damned lies.   surely, we can do better where lives are at
 stake.   let~s take a closer look at this risky business:
 
 	the ~43 times~ stat of the nejm study is the product of dividing the
 number of home intruders/aggressors justifiably killed in self-defense
 (the divisor) into the number of family members or acquaintances  killed
 by a gun in the home (the dividend).  the divisor of this risk equation
 is 9: in the study~s five-year sample there were 2 intruders and 7 other
 cases of self-defense.  the dividend is 387:  in the study there were 12
 accidental deaths, 42 criminal homicides, and 333 suicides.  387 divided
 by 9 yields 43.  there were a total of 743 gun-related deaths in king
 county between 1978 and 1983,  so the study leaves 347 deaths outside of
 homes unaccounted.
 
 	the nejm~s notorious ~43 times~ statistic is seriously misleading on
 six counts:
 
 	1.  the dividend is misleadingly characterized in the media:  the ~or
 acquaintances~ of the study (who include your friendly drug dealers and
 neighborhood gang members) is equated to ~friends.~  the implication is
 that the offending guns target and kill only beloved family members,
 dear friends, and innocent children.  deaths may all be equally tragic,
 but the character and circumstance of both victims and killers are
 relevant to the risk.  these crucial risk factors are masked by the
 calculated impression that the death toll is generated by witless
 waltons shooting dear friends and friendly neighbors.  this is
 criminological hogwash.
 
 	2.   the study itself does not distinguish households or environs
 populated by people with violent, criminal, or substance-abuse histories
 -- where the risk of death is very high -- versus households inhabited
 by more civil folk (for example, people who avoid high-risk activities
 like drug dealing, gang banging and wife beating) -- where the risk is
 very low indeed.  in actuality, negligent adults allow fatal but
 avoidable accidents; and homicides are perpetrated mostly by people with
 histories of violence or abuse, people who are identifiably and
 certifiably at ~high risk~ for misadventure.  to ignore these obvious
 risk factors in firearm accidents and homicides is as misleading as
 ignoring the role of alcohol in vehicular deaths: by tautology, neither
 gun deaths nor vehicular deaths would occur without firearms or
 vehicles; but the person and circumstance of the gun owner or driver
 crucially affect the risk. 
 
 	3.  one misleading implication of the way the nejm stat is framed is
 that the mere presence of a gun in the home is much more likely to kill
 than to protect, and this obscures -- indeed, disregards -- the role of
 personal responsibility.  the typical quotation of this study (unlike
 larson~s) attributes fatal agency to the gun:  ~a gun in the home is 43
 times as likely to kill . . . .~  (the center to prevent handgun
 violence, a major promulgator of the nejm statistic, uses this
 particular formulation.)  we can dispense with the silly debate about
 whether it~s people or guns that accomplish the killing:  again, by
 tautology, gun  deaths would not occur without the guns.  the question
 begged is how many deaths would occur anyway, without the guns.  in any
 case, people are the death-dealing agents, the guns are their lethal
 instruments.  the moral core of the personal  risk factors in gun deaths
 are personal responsibility and choice.  due care and responsibility
 obviate gun accidents; human choice mediates homicide and suicide (by
 gun or otherwise).  the choice to own a gun need not condemn a person to
 nejm~s high-risk pool.  the gun does not create this risk by itself. 
 people have a lot to say about what risk they run with guns in their
 homes.  for example, graduates of paxton quigley~s personal protection
 course do not run the touted ~43 times~ risk any more than skilled and
 sober drivers run the same risks of causing or suffering vehicular death
 as do reckless or drunk drivers.  undiscriminating actuarials disregard
 and obscure the role of personal responsibility and choice, just as they
 disregard and obscure the role of socio-economic, criminological and
 other risk-relevant factors in firearm-related death.  this is why we
 resent insurance premiums and actuarial consigment to risk pools whose
 norms disregard our individualities.  fortunately, nothing can consign
 us to the nejm risk pool but our own lack of choice or responsibility in
 the matter.
 
 	4.  suicide accounts for 84% of the deaths by gun in the home in the
 nejm study.  as against the total deaths by gun in king county,
 including those outside the home, in-house suicides are 44% of the total
 death toll, which is closer to the roughly 50% proportion found by other
 studies.  suicide is a social problem of a very different order from
 homicide or accidents.  the implication of the nejm study is that these
 suicides might not occur without readily available guns.  it is true
 that attempted suicide by gun is likely to succeed.  it is not obviously
 true that the absence of a gun would prevent any or all of these
 suicides.  this is widely assumed or alleged, but the preponderance of
 research on guns and suicide actually shows otherwise, that this is
 wishful thinking in all but a few truly impulsive cases.  (see:  bruce
 l. danto et al., the human side of homicide,  columbia university press,
 1982;  charles rich et al.,  ~guns and suicide,~  american journal of
 psychiatry,  march 1990.)  if suicides were removed from the dividend of
 the nejm study~s risk equation, the ~43 times~ stat would deflate to
 ~six.~  the inclusion of suicides in the nejm risk equation -- like the
 causes, durability, or interdiction of suicidal intent itself -- is a
 profoundly debatable matter.  quotations of the nejm study totally
 disregard this issue.
 
 	5.  citations of the nejm study also mislead regarding the estimable
 rate of justifiable and excusable homicide.  most measures, like the
 nejm homicide rate, are based on the immediate disposition of cases. 
 but many homicides initially ruled criminal are appealed and later ruled
 self-defense.  in the literature on battered women, immediate case
 dispositions are notorious for under-representing the rate of
 justifiable or excusable homicide. time~s january 18, 1993, cover story
 on women ~fighting back~ reported one study~s finding that 40% of women
 who appeal have their murder convictions thrown out.  time~s july 17,
 1989, cover story on a week of gun deaths reported 51% of the domestic
 cases as shootings by abuse victims; but only 3% of the homicides were
 reported as self-defense.  in a may 14, 1990, update, time  reported
 that 12% of the homicides had eventually been ruled self-defense. in
 time~s sample, the originally reported rate of self-defense was in error
 by a factor of four.  the possibility of such error is not acknowledged
 by promulgators of the nejm statistic. 
 
 	6.  while both the dividend and the product of the nejm risk equation
 are arguably inflated, the divisor is unconscionably misleading.  the
 divisor of this equation counts only aggressors who are killed,  not
 aggressors who are successfully thwarted without being killed or even
 shot at.   the utility of armed self-defense is the other side of the
 coin from the harms done with guns in homes.  what kind of moral idiocy
 is it to measure this utility only in terms of killings ?  do we measure
 the utility of our police solely in terms of felons killed  -- as
 opposed to the many many more who are otherwise foiled, apprehended, or
 deterred?  should we not celebrate (let alone count ) those cases where
 no human life is lost as successful armed defenses?  the question posed
 to media that cite the nejm scare stat is this:  why neglect the
 compendious research on successful armed defense, notably by
 criminologist gary kleck (point blank: guns and violence in america ,
 aldine de gruyter, 1992)?
 	kleck~s estimations of the rate and risk of defensive firearm use are
 based on victimization surveys as well as other studies:  the rate is
 high (about one million a year) and the risk is good (gun defenders fare
 better than anyone, either those who resort to other forms of resistance
 or those who do not resist).  dividing one million gun defenses a year
 by 30,000 annual gun deaths (from self-defense, homicides, suicides, and
 accidents) yields 33.  thus, we can construct a much more favorable
 statistic than the nejm scare stat:  
 
 a gun is 33 times more likely to be used to defend against assault or
 other crime than to kill anybody.   
 
 	of course, kleck~s critics belittle the dividend of this calculation;
 what is good news for gun defenders is bad news for gun control.  we
 should indeed question the basis and method of kleck~s high estimation
 of defensive firearm use, as i have questioned the nejm statistic. 
 clearly, the issue of how to manage mortal risks is not settled by
 uncritical citation of statistics.   one thing troubles me still:  we
 can hardly escape the unquestioned nejm scare stat in our media,  but we
 hardly ever find kleck~s good work mentioned,  even critically.
 
 -- 
 larry cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com
 