
 
 |question #2
 
 |as i understand it, in evanston, il, they have a ordinance banning handguns.
 |is there any way to get around this provision?
 
 why don't you call the city and ask? oak park also has an illegal handgun
 ban as well, but does allow those with a "collectors ffl" to possess
 ("collectible?") handguns.
 
 |what would the penalty if you were found out be?
 
 probably a fine in practical terms.
 
 |what if you used said handgun in a defensive shooting in your apartment 
 |there?  how would the city law apply to your impending 
 |trial for the shooting?
 
 it wouldn't impede your defense at all. there was an actual incident
 in oak park where a gas station owner engaged in a shootout with a
 handgun; the grand jury decided not to presecute. on the other hand,
 a black man used an illegally owned handgun in oak park to defend
 himself, and the village tried to make an example out of him. an nra
 director who lived there made a stink about this, and it was decided
 not to charge the guy. of course, pissing off anti-gun police thugs
 has it's own drawbacks, like when the oak park police chief came to his
 house, and told him: "this is stepping over the line; this could get
 dangerous for you." whereupon the few black oak park police officers
 watched over his house to ensure that the white anti-gun police chief
 and his anti-gun cronies wouldn't f*ck with him, his home or family.
 
 |also, what is il state law concerning short barreled weapons?  short barreled
 |shotgun is what i would be interested in if a handgun were not available, 
 |either that or a shortened 9mm carbine (ie colt, marlin).  
 
 l.v. cipriani states that the "any other weapon" category is allowed,
 but the exact relationship between an ithaca auto-burgular, which i
 believe is in the "any other weapon" category and a chopped barrel
 h&k hk-94 (class 3 for sure) is not clear to me...
 
 |one more thing, what is the chance of getting a ccw permit in il without being
 |rich or famous or related to the mayor?
 
 in your dreams, buddy. as long as democrats reign in chicago, illinois
 residents will always be disarmed and helpless in the streets. politicians
 get around this by provisions in the law that allow them to carry
 concealed weapons. voters in chicago are too stupid to vote these a**holes
 out of office; because the dems are always in power, the illinois 
 supreme court is always tilted to the democratic party's views on guns.
 [all candidates supported by political consultant david axelrod are
 anti-gun, which explains anti-rkba crook county states attorney 
 jack(ass) o'malley being a so-called "republican."]
 
 get rid of the chicago democrats, get rid of their members on the il
 judiciary, and you got a fighting chance of a preemption law and a ccw
 law...
 