
 
 having read the posted long article by jpfo, i have some observations:
 
 1.  this article does not claim that the gca of 1968 is a "verbatim 
 translation" of a nazi law.  what it says is that in another place --
 the book they're talking about -- they compare the two things section
 by section.  the implication is that the similarities are devastating.
 in the next sentence, they talk about how in that book they reproduce 
 the german text of the nazi law, together with its translation.  not 
 surprisingly, a reader could easily conflate these two things into a 
 single idea:  that the american gca is a literal translation of the nazi
 law; and sure enough, that's what the whole thing has mutated into, 
 urban-folklore style.
 
 2.  the article goes to great pains to establish that senator dodd had a 
 copy of the nazi law, either from his time on the nurnberg prosecution 
 team or later.  this fact is considered highly incriminating, but i don't 
 understand why.  the author repeats several times that he is simply unable 
 to imagine how anyone could come into possession of the original text; and 
 yet in a paragraph towards the end, he explains it perfectly:
 
 "if dodd got his copy of the original german text of the nazi weapons
 law during his time at nurnberg, it likely was part of a collection of
 documents, for example, issues of the reichsgesetzblatt [the german
 law registry]."
 
 bingo.  exactly.  
 
 dodd had a *book*, with a series of nazi laws in it, including the one
 under discussion.  all of the stuff about "why would a u.s. congressman
 have a copy of a nazi law?" melts away, by the author's admission.  he
 then continues:  "but if he acquired the original german text of the 
 nazi weapons law after his service at nurnberg, he must have done so 
 for a very specific reason..."  but there's absolutely no reason to 
 think that this is the case.  in fact, as a "senior member of the u.s. 
 team that helped to prosecute nazi war criminals", it seems to me that
 he would have *had* to have a copy.  all arguments about whether 
 the nazi weapon law is really of historical interest (as it obviously
 is, certainly according to the author here), or whether dodd personally
 prosecuted the interior minister who signed it, can be put aside as red 
 herrings.
 
 3.  having established that dodd owned a copy of the original german text, the
 jpfo article then tries to draw sinister implications from the fact that he 
 asked to have it translated.  the problem is, in the context of the charge 
 levelled at dodd, these two things work *against* each other.  people ask 
 to have things translated when they *don't know what they mean*.  if dodd 
 took it upon himself to preserve the nazi law with idea of someday introducing 
 it into american law, surely by 1968 he would have know what it *meant*, 
 wouldn't he?
     anyway, this precise charge -- the main one that i questioned in an earlier
 posting -- is just silly.  why would dodd need the exact translation for this
 purpose?  is the idea that the gun controllers, despite being presumably bent
 on disarming the populace with the goal of eventually destroying all civil
 liberties, needed a crib sheet?  didn't they have any idea how to do it
 on their own?
     once again, the author provides a perfectly acceptable answer to his
 own question: "dodd may have offered his copy of the nazi weapons law
 to show that the specific proposal did not resemble anything in the 
 nazi law."  in fact, since the law and its translation *were* entered
 into the congressional record, under the heading of documents "concerning
 the history of nazism and gun confiscation", dodd's motivation isn't a 
 mystery:  he asked for the translation in order to put it in the cr.
 
 4.  even this article makes it clear that the part of the nazi law that
 was added *by* the nazi regime is only a small part of that law.  
 registration of guns, for instance, was begun in 1928, and thus not
 a "nazi-inspired" idea.  the parts of the nazi law that parallel the 
 1968 gca include handgun control of some sort, and the identification 
 of certain weapons as sporting weapons.  the jpfo then goes on to list 
 other parts of the nazi law, forbidding ownership of weapons by jews;
 of course, there are no such provisions in the american gca.  nevertheless,
 in a rhetorical move guaranteed to muddy the waters, immediately after the 
 discussion of the anti-jewish parts of the law, the jpfo article continues, 
 "given the parallels between the nazi weapons law and the gca'68..." -- so 
 as to get maximum emotional mileage out of that aspect of the law.
 -- 
 					-- don porges
 					porges@inmet.camb.inmet.com
 					..uunet!inmet!porges
 