
 
 well, the question of why fire equipment took so long to reach the 
 compound has been answered. abc aired a report including the 911 tapes 
 from monday. the fbi called 911 within 4 minutes of the fire's breakout. 
 unfortunately, dispatch of vehicles outside the waco city limits 
 required approval of a deputy chief, who was not available (literally 
 out to lunch?); the 911 operator desperately called around to local 
 community volunteer fire departments to get something out there. by 
 the time trucks arrived 27 minutes later, the whole complex was aflame 
 and it was clearly too little, too late; there were just two pumpers 
 and no water supply. the fbi made another call requesting a tank truck, 
 but the waco department apparently depended on hydrants and did not 
 have one. though clearly unwilling to risk firemen's lives in the 
 line of fire, it seems they might have done so had there been sufficient 
 equipment and water to make a difference.
 
 they even aired a tape of a woman who called waco 911 from georgia 
 asking if anything was being done. civic-minded, but probably 
 irresponsible; if everyone watching television did that, no local 
 calls could get through.
 
 abc also aired the comments of an independent fire investigator who 
 viewed tapes from more than one side of the compound (not just the 
 standard "pool shot"), and agreed that the fire a) must have been 
 started in at least 3 places, and b) must have had an accelerant 
 to spread so fast.
 
 neither of these is conclusive proof that the koresh crowd offed 
 themselves more than the fbi offed them, but it's a heck of a lot 
 stronger proof than some of the "theories" floating around the net.
 
 score 2 fbi, 0 branch davidians. or is that -89 branch davidians?
 
 -- 
  | the koresh cult standoff is over ... may his victims recquiescat in pace |
  |                                                                          |
  |                    (the above is a net.moment of silence)                |
  daniel a. hartung  --  dhartung@chinet.chinet.com  --  ask me about rotaract
 