
 
 boston globe, wednesday april 21 1993
 
 col. 4  "bodies found in ruins as fbi defends raid on cult ranch"
 col. 5 "clinton blames koresh, orders probe of siege"
 col. 2 "the children: panws in a horrifying game"
 
 pg. 18, col. 1, editorial page  
 	"judgment at waco"
 
 	now the scientific and political scrutiny of the
 horror show in waco begins, though nothing can
 undo the tragedy that might have been prevented 
 there.
 	forensic experts will study the rubble and
 ashes of the branch davidian compound, where at
 least 85 people, including 24 children, perished in
 smoke and fire caused by theapocalyptic visions of
 a manipulative madman and a stunning lapse in
 judgment by federal law enforcement officials.
    [emphasis added by me]
 	investigators will re-create conditions at the
 compound and identify accelerants and other fac-
 tors fueling the inferno.  that is their strong suit.
 	but the public must question why agents of the
 federal bureau of investigation lacked the oper-
 ational skill and teh behavioral insight to resolve
 the 51-day standoff free of flames and fury.
 	the loss of life most clearly reflects the demen-
 tia of cult leader david koresh, whose personal
 delusiosn are now seared on the public conscious-
 ness.  his assembly of davidians had stockpiles of
 arms--and had used them.  little in the way of
 rationality could be expected from koresh, a self-
 confsesed "sinner without equal."
 	what continues to mystify are th eactions of
 federal agents, who bungled the case from the
 start.  the misadventure began on feb. 28 when
 100 agents of the federal bureau of alcohol, to-
 bacco and firearms storemd the compound, intent
 on seizing koresh and a cache of automatic weap-
 ons.  four agents and an estimated  six cult mem-
 bers died inteh ensuing gun battle.  earlier
 oppor-tunities to isolate and arrest koresh outside the
 complex had not been adequately explored.
 	authorities prepared a siege and resolved that
 those deaths would be the last.  fifty-one days into 
 the siege there was no public outcry to storm the
 compound.
 	it had been correctly perceived that the chil-
 dren inside "rancho apocalypse" were essentially 
 hostages.  with their lives at stake, there was no
 reason for the government to be impatient.  the
 government's superior firepower, control of water
 and utilities and freedom of movement created the
 conditions for a belated but bloodless resolution.
 	neither attorney general janet reno nor the
 fbi has provided a sigle compelling reason for
 abandondoning the course of patience.
 	if intelligence was accurate and koresh was
 growing increasingly violent and bizarre, it is diffi-
 cult to see how a tear-gas attack launched by an
 m-60 combat vehicle would clear his mind.  if re-
 ports of escalating child abuse were accurate, they
 would have to be weighted against the potential for
 eve ngreated hamr.
 
 
 etc etc tec....
 [paragraphs, 2.5 paragraphs deleted]
 
 but some of the responsibility rests with clinton,
 and inexperienced president who did not pay
 enough attention to the life-and -death decisions
 being made on waco.
 	if reno is to be faulted for anything, ti would
 be for her overreliance on the judgment of law en-
 forcement officers--a common problem among
 prosecutors.
 	full investigations into th ewaco tragedy must
 be conducted by both the executive and legislative
 branches.  the first step is to verify how the blaze 
 started.  though apportioning blame will play a 
 role, it is of greater importnace to find strategies
 to elude the fire next time.
 
 [end of editorial]
 -j. case kim
 kim39@husc.harvard.edu
 
 