
 the waco quiz
 
 what would you do in the following hypothetical situations?
 
 you have committed no crime.  the batf conducts a "no-knock" raid.
 a) hands in air. say "do you have a warrant?" think of hefty suit settlement.
 b) say "you have 1 second to identify yourself as a cop or i shoot."
 c) shoot.  heck, at least in federal prison you might get to have sex.
 
 you have killed federal agents. they blast strange music at you.
 a) come out with hands up. "i wish to turn state's evidence." hope deal's good.
 b) wait, figuring other federal agents will get bored and go on vacation.
 c) wait. if they come after you there will be a chance to kill more g-men.
 
 the fbi has you surrounded, asks you to come out immediately.
 a) come out, figuring long prison term is chance to catch up on some writing.
 b) stall. you just can't concentrate when you're on trial for some reason.
 c) decide to write novel-length prophecy now while ideas are fresh in mind.
 
 fbi calls and says they will use tear gas if you don't come out.
 a) come out with hands up. your radical bro-in-law hated getting gassed at uc.
 b) get out your gas mask. really, these feds will have to give up eventually.
 c) shoot at vehicles delivering tear gas. it's rude to break down a man's door!
 
 fbi calls and says they will use tanks to break down your walls.
 a) come out with your hands up. flimsy cardboard construction won't last long.
 b) with presence of mind, move flammable devices away from tinder-dry haybales.
 c) spread some kerosene around and hit a match. big schwarzenegger ending.
 
 points are awarded in the following manner: 0 points for every (a) answer,
 -1 points for every (b) answer, and -2 points for every (c) answer.
 count 'em up and compare with your friends!
 
 if you answered (a) all the time, you are probably in jail, but alive.
 if you answered (b) all the time, you may still be holed up in your compound.
 if you answered (c) all the time, you are probably dead.
 
 (feel free to copy this and distribute to your friends.)
 
 -- 
  | the koresh cult standoff is over ... may his victims recquiescat in pace |
  |                                                                          |
  |                    (the above is a net.moment of silence)                |
  daniel a. hartung  --  dhartung@chinet.chinet.com  --  ask me about rotaract
 