
 
 for those who didn't figure it out, the below message was a reply to another
 in sci.crypt, for which the poster put t.p.g. in the followup-to line. i
 didn't notice that. apologies to those who were confused.
 
 the substance makes little sense unless one reads the prior messages.
 
 however, i don't wish to enter into this discussion here, as it will be yet
 another rehearsal of a long-tired set of arguments. suffice it to say that i
 disagree both with the interpretation of "well-regulated" in the second
 amendment offered by gun lovers, and what i think to be their distortion of
 the same phrase in the associated federalist papers. my webster and my
 reading of the language convinces me that the word meant both under control,
 and disciplined, and not 'of good marksmanship'. i think the latter a
 special interest pleading. no one has yet shown a contemporateous reference
 in which "well regulated" unambiguously meant 'of good marksmanship', and
 not under control/disciplined, etc.
 
 thus i continue to believe the second amendment is a militia clause and not
 an 'arming everyone' clause. others are welcome to disagree (as i know many
 do) and little would be served by rehashing this topic in this particular
 forum.
 
 to avoid flames, or unproductive rehashings, i note that i've come in here
 to post this one message, just to clarify the one below. i'm now outta here
 again though i'm available via e-mail.
 
 david
 
 in article <strnlghtc5tr6d.n3n@netcom.com> strnlght@netcom.com (david
 sternlight) writes:
 
 >
 >though i agree this is not the place to discuss guns, i note in passing that
 >a number of gun apologists seem to have ignored the words "well regulated"
 >in their distorted interpretations of the second amendment.
 >
 >david
 >-- 
 >david sternlight         great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
 >                         our information, errors and omissions excepted.  
 >
 >
 
 
 -- 
 david sternlight         great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of
                          our information, errors and omissions excepted.  
 
 
 