
 posted for l. neil smith by cathy smith
 
 
                          the lies of texas
 
 okay, what have we learned?
 
 for reasons still being kept secret, a federal agency already known 
 -- well enough to be examined and rebuked by several legislative 
 committees over the years -- for a longstanding, violent disregard
 of the law, invades the home of a man whose religious beliefs and 
 personal habits they abominate, violating his rights under the 
 first, second, fourth, fifth, ninth, and fourteenth amendments to 
 the constitution. 
 
 the man and his followers fight back, killing four of the outlaw 
 agency's minions, wounding many more, and suffering their own 
 losses in the process. the agency responds by cutting off his 
 electricity, water, and especially his contact with the outside 
 world. they are then free to say anything at all about him -- in 
 pronouncements that contradict one another daily as the agency 
 finds itself locked in a bitter power struggle with another outfit 
 eager to gain credit for "straightening out the mess" -- and, more 
 importantly, to script his side of the subsequent "negotiations" 
 any way they please. 
 
 the impasse lasts almost two months, ironically, at the same time 
 four l.a. cops are being given a second trial for brutalizing a 
 single individual, sparking one of the ugliest riots in history. 
 armored vehicles surround the house, already ringed with snipers 
 using scoped, high-powered rifles. loudspeakers playing obnoxious 
 records at the highest possible volume, and searchlights, deprive 
 those in the house of sleep (in the aftermath, nobody in authority 
 will mention the effect this technique, originated by north korean 
 communists as a battle tactic, may have had on their judgment). 
 
 finally -- another irony -- on the 50th anniversary of the rising 
 of the warsaw ghetto, some of the armor punches holes in the house 
 and gas of some kind is injected. the house bursts into flame and 
 is reduced to ashes in less than an hour. at least 80 lives, 
 including those of more than a dozen children, are snuffed out. 
 
 spokesmen for the outlaw agencies, the attorney general, and the 
 president all hold press conferences to articulate a common theme: 
 blame the victim. 
 
 he had illegal weapons -- as soon as they can be prepared in a 
 secret government workshop and planted among the cinders being 
 "examined" by the agency that created them. he was abusing children 
 -- the tapes will be stored with the data on the jfk assassination. 
 he set the fire -- our snipers saw him doing it. film at 11 -- in 
 3000 a.d. he shot his followers who tried to escape -- or was that 
 jim jones? best of all, he's dead -- he can't say a damn thing to 
 embarrass us, any more than when his contact with the world was 
 severed at the start of the whole travesty. 
 
 a leading national paper claims 93% of the american people believe 
 that a man who resisted a savage attack on his home is somehow 
 responsible for everything that resulted. but when did you ever 
 know 93% of americans to agree on anything -- doesn't this sound 
 more like the outcome of a soviet election than an opinion poll? 
 
 very well, what can we infer from the above? for starters, never 
 forget that, although democratic careers are on the line (and 
 rightfully so) over this fiasco, by the outlaw agency's admission, 
 it was planned and rehearsed by a republican administration. which 
 may explain why paul harvey, who evidently used up all his courage 
 and integrity changing his mind (at about the same time i did) 
 about the war in viet nam -- has been acting as little more than a 
 mouthpiece for a state that has no regard for the bill of rights. 
 
 more importantly, when rush limbaugh, who's been a quivering tower 
 of jello during the whole thing, takes essentially the same stance 
 as bill clinton, it's time for fundamental changes, if not in the 
 system, then at least within yourself. 
 
 on march 5, back at the beginning, mary gingell, national chair of 
 the libertarian party, issued a press release condemning the outlaw 
 agency and calling for its abolition. in fact, the lp has promised 
 in its platform since 1977, for at least 16 years, to abolish both 
 agencies involved in waco. i'm proud to say i was there and helped 
 to write that plank. 
 
 true, the lp is tiny and insignificant (although less so than in 
 1977 -- ask the democrats in georgia if you doubt it). but, alone 
 in a howling wilderness of fascists scrambling now to cover their 
 behinds with phony polls and big lies, the lp is right about what 
 happened in waco. and if their advice had been followed in 1977, 
 waco never would have happened. 
 
 think about it. and think about the fact that, if you've had enough 
 of political parties more interested in collecting and holding 
 power -- at whatever cost to the bill of rights, let alone human 
 life -- than in defending and expanding individual liberty, maybe 
 the change it's time for within yourself is to make the lp less 
 tiny and insignificant by a single voice and a single vote.
 
 think about it.
 
 l. neil smith
 author: the probability broach, the crystal empire, henry martyn, 
 and (forthcoming) pallas
 editor: lever action bbs (303) 493-6674, fidonet: 1:306/31.4
 libertarian second amendment caucus
 nra life member
 
 my opinions are, of course, my own.
 
 