
 in article <1r569ainn7ss@charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu>, nomad@ecst.csuchico.edu (michael larish) writes:
 
 > 	how is clinton responsible?  it was a law enforcement action.
 > granted, it was a nationally covered incident but clinton had no more to
 > do with the outcome than fred flintstone.
 
 do i think clinton conceived of it?  no.
 do i think clinton ordered it?  no.
 do i think clinton was aware of it before it went down?  no.
 do i think clinton was aware of it after it went down?  of course; who wasn't?
 do i think clinton prejudged these people to a certain extent because he
                    believed the batf crap about child abuse and stockpiling
                    "evil semi-automatic weapons?"  yes.
 do i think clinton ever questioned federal jurisdiction in this matter?  no.
 do i think clinton ever considered the civil rights of the victims?  no.
 
 > 	as for the rest, i won't argue whether batf handled the initial
 > confrontation well (or as it should have).  but from day 2 on, i have no
 > problem with the way the operation was handled or the decisions made.
 
 some of us suspect that all the unlawful mistakes made on day 1 were made 
 on the government's end.  that makes days 2-51 nothing but a macho 
 alternative to delivering an apology.
 
 > as
 > for day 51, as long as the fbi and batf didn't intentionally set the fire
 > then, while it is certainly tragic, the majority of americans (according
 > to a recent poll) have no problems with the operation itself. 
 
 who gives a good goddamn about some bullshit "opinion poll" of "most 
 americans?"  most americans swallow the government line that they're fed --
 not because they're stupid, but because it's the only line they ever hear.
 
 "most americans" thought the staff at the mcmaster(?) school was guilty,
 guilty, guilty.  woops, turns out they weren't.  "most americans" once
 thought that black slaves weren't human beings.  woops, wrong again.
 "most americans" thought saddam hussein was the antichrist.  oh dear,
 he was a "special friend of the american government" until two years 
 previously.  you know, maybe truth isn't determined by majority vote
 of a half-informed public after all.
 
 > in fact,
 > most americans (according to this poll) think it should have been
 > resolved sooner...
 
 you're just testy because of all those newsbreaks that were interrupting
 "roseanne."
 -- 
 
 cdt@rocket.sw.stratus.com   --if you believe that i speak for my company,
 or cdt@vos.stratus.com        write today for my special investors' packet...
 
 