
 dhartung@chinet.chi.il.us (dan hartung) writes:
 
 [massive dan blather mercifully deleted.]
 
 >>his last sentence says it all.  who the hell are we (or the government)
 >>to judge their religion as wrong.  this event, i hope, will be recorded
 >>in history as the american holocaust.  these people were murdered 
 >>by the us government just as surely as the jews were by the nazis.
 >>i hang my head in shame for what i've allowed my government to become.
 
 >i have never judged them by their religion, but by their actions.
 
 >if they had lived a quiet, religious life as they claimed, there would
 >have been no raid, no siege, and no deaths.  instead, they chose courses
 >of action at every turn that were at the very least stupid, if not
 >irrational.  the first was to stockpile weapons.  the second was to
 >shoot federal agents.  the third was to stay inside.
 
 last time i checked, "amassing an arsenal" and practicing any kind of
 religion were mentioned in passing in the bill of rights.  guess it's
 ok with you if we just brush 'em aside in order to justify killing
 a bunch of religious nutcakes, eh?
 
 of all the idiots i run into in daily life, dan, your type scare me the
 most.  you'll accept expediency and a coward's safety over any belief
 just as long as the government tells you to.  you assume that anyone who
 doesn't comform to your beliefs and ways of thinking are wrong and
 therefore bad.  worse, you seem to accept without question what the
 government says is wrong to be wrong.
 
 david koresh's religion was not mine but then again, neither are the baptists,
 methodists, catholics or any of the rest of the corporate religions.  but
 even though koresh's, the baptists, the methodists, etc, don't believe
 the same way i do, i recognize that their religions are equally valid
 to mine and more importantly are equally protected under the 1st amendment.
 you see, i'm not that much different than koresh and i suspect many others
 fit the same catagory.  i read the bible many times and as i learned 
 from it, i discovered that a lot of what corporate religions practice
 just isn't justified by my interpretation of the bible.  therefore i go
 my own way.  so did koresh.  and neither you nor i nor anyone else,
 either individually or collectively as the great socialist "we" has any 
 right whatsoever to tell me or you or koresh that our religions are wrong.
 
 you seem to think that it would have been oh so easy for the davidians to
 just forsake everything they believed in and walk out of their compound
 in order to "save themselves".  think (if you're capable) for a moment
 about some belief you hold dearest.  would you abandon that belief if
 suddenly told to do so by the government?  if you would do so you are
 beneath contempt.  let's assume you have a belief that you hold dear
 enough to commit your life to.  do you think it would be the correct
 course of action for your government to initiate actions specifically
 designed to force you to make that "forsake or die" decision?
 
 the "forsake or die" option is exactly what the government forced on the
 davidians the day the first wave of black-clad stormtroopers fired that
 first shot and tossed that first grenade.  the fbi clenched it on day 51
 when they sent in heavy armor against 80-some-odd men, women and
 children holed up in a rickety old building and armed with small arms.  the
 people who stayed, who held to their beliefs over personal safety, whose
 individual personal honors demanded they die rather than submit, who
 believed that the bill of rights meant exactly what it says, to those
 people go my deepest respect, regardless of their religion.  people like
 you who blithely blow off the murder of 80 people with "well they could
 have come out" get my most scornful contempt.  i'd spit in your face
 were there not a network between us.  you're not worth the ashes of
 those people who burned.
 
 john
 -- 
 john de armond, wd4oqc               |interested in high performance mobility?  
 performance engineering magazine(tm) | interested in high tech and computers? 
 marietta, ga                         | send ur snail-mail address to 
 jgd@dixie.com                        | perform@dixie.com for a free sample mag
 lee harvey oswald: where are ya when we need ya?
 