
 from article <1r0mhtinna59@cronkite.central.sun.com>, by dbernard@clesun.central.sun.com (dave bernard):
 >>does that include the right to murder little children?  how about killing
 >>atf officers?  i do not know much about the gun laws in texas, but 
 >>koresh's folks claimed to have grenades, grenade launchers, and rocket
 >>launchers.  i am not sure that the nra feels that this falls under 
 >>"right to bear arms."
 >  
 > if the waco wackos truly had grenade launchers and rocket launchers, why
 > weren't they used against the armored vehicles that attacked their house?
 > all the media stated was that small arms (ie, ineffective) fire was used
 > against them.
 
 i noticed that too.  special agent (asshole actually) ricks stated that
 david koresh had "explosives that could blow up an armored vehicle 40
 feet into the air."  it looked like to me that the bds had plenty of
 opportunity to use these explosives---provided that they had them in the
 first place.  for example, when one of the tanks was injecting cs gas
 into the ranch house (yes ranch house; the bds weren't living in a
 fortress) they could have easily destroyed or disabled that tank because
 it was idling there for a considerable length of time.  so, why didn't
 they do this?  could it be that they didn't have any explosives or
 similar munitions?  i just don't buy what the atf and fbi have been
 saying.  hopefully, the truth will come out.
 
 here's something noteworthy:  after the fire had been burning for some
 time an explosion occurred---just *one* explosion.  the media said that
 this was some of the explosives that the bds posessed going off.  i
 don't think this was the case.  my brother and i noticed that this
 so-called "explosion" resembled a plume of propane gas being ignited.
 we figure that this is what it was because of how the "explosion"
 looked and sounded.  obviously, it wasn't due to something like tnt,
 dynamite, or c4.  i have seen a propane explosion before...the explosion
 in the ranch house greatly resembled this.  also, i noticed something
 that looked like a propane tank in the charred ruble the next day.
 
 isn't it curious that the atf wasn't very forthcoming about how the four
 officers got killed?  many weeks had gone by before they stated that
 some of the officers had been killed and/or wounded by grenades thrown
 by the bds.  earlier, when someone asked one of the spokespersons about
 whether or not an autopsy had been performed on the slain agents, they
 said that an autopsy had been done but they weren't ready to release
 the findings.  now why is this?  does the atf have something to hide?
 perhaps those four agents were killed by friendly fire.  what is the
 cause of death exactly?  no one has ever said what it is.
 
 what is certain is this:  atf agents *did* throw grenades into the
 compound.  as a matter of fact, mr. koresh handed his lawyer a grenade
 body during one of the lawyer's visits to the compound.  later on
 the lawyer gave the grenade body (i don't know if it was a dud or a
 spent one btw) to the atf.  how much do you want to bet that this
 grenade will mysteriously disappear?  at this point in time the only
 people we know who had grenades was the atf agents.  wouldn't it be
 a shocker if the no one ever found any evidence of grenades, rockets,
 or explosives in the rubble?  the atf would sure have egg on their
 face then.  note that the atf is doing the *initial* sweep of the
 rubble.  the fbi and the texas rangers won't investigate until the
 atf is done.  this looks like a perfect opportunity for the atf to
 make sure that others "find" what they want for them to "find" if
 you know what i mean.  i'm probably being a little paranoid here
 but if i am i have could reason to be.  recall that several weeks
 had gone by before anyone said that the bds had used grenades.
 also recall that early on the atf had *denied* that their agents
 used grenades on the bds.  someone is lying here.
 
 
 scott kennedy,  brewer and patriot
 
 before:  "david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets
           the bible through the barrel of a gun..."  --atf spokesman
 after:   "[the atf] is a cheap thug who interprets
           [the constitution] through the barrel of a gun..."  --me
 
 