
 everyone is complaining about the debacle in waco. it is hard to 
 understand all this angst. what happend there is nothing less than
 what we wanted to happen. why all the sour grapes ?
 
 batf was looking for a propaganda event to counteract their impending
 budget cuts ... the attendance of the press at the initial big
 commando raid is proof. it would have been ever so easier to grab
 koresh and his central followers as they shopped in waco. alas, no
 propaganda value there. 
 
 the fbi screwed-up big time, all the time. they should have never allowed
 the situation to drag out like that. a quick second assault, before the
 bds could decide on a strategy, would have been the better plan. 
 
 the bds themselves were the biggest screw-ups though. they imagined
 that us law and us law-enforcement had no jurisdiction within their
 little 'country'. wrong ! they had no right whatsoever to fire on
 the batf, and if they mistook their identity initially, they should
 have surrendered at once when they did realize who they were. if the
 bds had a problem with the warrants, they take it to court, just like
 the rest of us. if they wanted full-auto weapons, they could have
 obtained the proper permits, just like the rest of us would need to
 do. what they may not do is decide for themselves what us law applies
 to themselves and which does not. they get their chance like the rest
 of us - at the voting booth. 
 
 if the batf and fbi have become latter-day gestapo, then they have
 become that way because we have desired them to be so. we get to
 vote on laws, and on the lawmakers. by our choices over the years,
 we have approved the creation and form of the batf and fbi. when
 the fbi was out chasing 'pinkos', the general public didn't seem
 to mind a bit of extra-constitutional activity. when the batf is
 raiding militant black organizations, we don't mind the heavy hand.
 when the fbi is dicking around with the rights of potheads, the
 public doesn't mind. suddenly, when we see a bit of ourselves in
 the current 'enemy' choosen by these agencies, we get all bent out
 of shape. suprise ! you reap what you sow.
 
 waco was an encapsulation of the all-american experience - religious
 fanaticism, militaristic thinking and overwhelming violence. don't
 blame it on 'them', the fbi and batf. they were just acting within
 the parameters we have set over the years. we made 'them'. we are 'them'.
 
 -- jim mason 
 