
 ------------------------- original article -------------------------
 
 the colorado daily recently reprinted the wall street journal's article
 on paxton quigley, including the nefarious little paragraph the journal
 tacked onto the end.  after recieving much assistance from various t.p.g.
 type folks, i wrote a letter to the editor criticizing this last paragraph,
 and surprise, surprise, surprise, they published it.  the text follows.
 the colorado daily, btw, is the university of colorado (boulder) student
 (i think) newspaper... not exactly a big coup, but every little bit, i guess...
 
 (the title was the only thing they changed/added)
 
 "gun stats"
 
 the daily recently reprinted an article from the
 wall street journal, primarily concerned with paxton
 quigley, author of "armed and female."  the article,
 in turn, cites a misleading statistic that was originally
 reported in the new england journal of medicine.  the
 article states, "a study... found that a gun in the home
 was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner,
 spouse, a friend, or child than to kill an intruder."  this
 is an often-quoted statistic, and it is misleading for sev-
 eral reasons, outlined below:
 
 the study gives the impression that, if you own a
 gun, the likelihood that you will successfully use it to
 defend yourself is less than that of the gun being turned
 against you.  the study, however, fails to take into
 account cases where a law-abiding citizen uses a gun
 to thwart a crime, without actually killing the perpe-
 trator.
 
 the study actually refers to 'acquaintances' rather
 than 'friend'.  this would include the friendly neigh-
 borhood thug who shows up like clockwork, every
 month, the second your grandmother cashes her social
 security check.  possibly an acquaintance, but hardly a
 friend.
 
 the nejm study is based on the immediate dis-
 position of cases and fails to take into account cases
 originally filed as homicides that were later ruled to be
 self-defense.  especially considering the small sample
 size (396), taking these events into account has a sub-
 stantial effect on the 43:1 ratio quoted.
 
 criminologist gary kleck gives us a slightly dif-
 erent statistic: a gun is 33 times more likely to be
 used, successfully, by a private citizen against an
 aggressor than it is to kill anyone at all.  further, per-
 sons defending themselves from aggression by using a
 gun fare better than those who resist vicimization by
 some other means, or who offer no resistance at all.
 statistics available from the fbi and other agencies
 also show that a gun is 245 times more likely to be
 used by a non-criminal to defend against criminal threat
 than to be used to commit criminal homicide, 535 times
 more likely to be used to defend against a criminal
 threat than to accidentally kill anybody, and 50 times
 more likely to defend against criminal threat than to be
 used to commit suicide.
 
 it is well to keep in mind that nearly anything can
 be proved by uncritical quotation of statistics.  one has
 to consider carefully what questions were asked by
 those gathering the data before one can draw an accu-
 rate conclusion from them.
 
 d.f. taylor
 cu department of chemistry and biochemistry
 
 
 --
 spooksmoke: revolution, assasination, thorium, cobalt-60, clintin, cia, nsa, shc
   dod #202 / loki@acca.nmsu.edu / liberty or death / taylordf@ucsu.colorado.edu
                  send me something even you can't read...
 -----begin pgp public key block-----
 version: 2.2
 
 mqcnaitfksqaaaeeakceejwi9f5kmjykp0logc5dghrpbmy2xhoo8kpehmdyuf8a
 1bfdqsj53kostz6hroshsdzlvul1/40vpjmmntfr+vyz4jvd3rl4iuq2ummmex3m
 itf3ult8xn/v/qabsvhcfshvjvk4lf6wosucmo03m2tix31ai7vb0uzo4yxjaaux
 tcreyw5pzwwgribuyxlsb3igpexva2laywnjys5ubxn1lmvkdt4=
 =s5ib
 -----end pgp public key block-----
 
 