
 in article <1993apr21.091130.17788@ousrvr.oulu.fi> dfo@vttoulu.tko.vtt.fi (foxvog douglas) writes:
 >
 >this means you would support a ban if it were narrow enough.  good.
 
 	this was not stated nor implied.  try asking.
 >
 >nerve gas and mustard gas are well defined.  other poisonous
 >gasses should be individually banned only if it can be shown that there
 >is no use not related to weaponry.  licenses should be available for
 >research purposes on such chemicals.
 
 	this is laughable.  licenses?  right.  so then i would need a
 	license to possess chlorine gas?  it is a weapons grade poison.
 	would i be breaking the law then if i were to, say, pour chlorox
 	on the spot where my cat pissed on the floor?  the reaction of
 	ammonia and bleach liberates pure chlorine gas.  do i go to jail
 	for this?  why or why not?
 
 	would i need a license to possess other chemical agents?  what about
 	nicotine?  deadly poison, and rather fast acting.  must i now become
 	licensed to posess tobacco?  and what about nicotine sulphate, an even
 	deadlier poison?  will i need a license to possess this type of 
 	insecticide?  what about raid(tm)?  black flag?  gasoline?  benzene?
 	hydrazine (a violent poison)?
 
 	will i go to jail for possessing a can of tomatoes that went bad with
 	botulinus?
 
 	what about my mom & pop qc lab where i use cyanogen bromide (mustard
 	gas) to do lot analysis on certain non-prescription pharmaceuticals?
 
 	what if i wish to use potassium cyanide to recover gold from aqua
 	regia?  a license? 
 
 	would i need a license to possess beryllium, perhaps the most poisonous
 	non-radioactive metal?  how about beryllium-copper alloy?
 
 	do i need a license for nitrate fertilizers which *could* be used to
 	make very powerful explosive devices such as the one that the ira
 	recently detonated, killing 1 and injuring 45?
 
 	can i have vinegar without license?  hydrogen peroxide?  where is the 
 	line drawn?    
 
 >i am not a lawyer, but these ideas could certainly be a basis for 
 >definitions.
 
 	yes they could, but are they good ideas?  are they needed?  is there
 	any shred of sanity in them?  scarcely, i trust.
 >
 	-andy v.
 