        <1qjmnuinnlmd@clem.handheld.com>
         <cmm.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no>
         <viking.734945095@ponderous.cc.iastate.edu>
 date: sun, 18 apr 1993 11:20:09 gmt
 lines: 72
 originator: thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no
 
 
 gun clubs:
 if you are a member you can borrow weapons....(suprised??)
 you are supposed to train with a .22 for the 6 months, then
 you can start with anything bigger.
 
 drivers licence:
 forgot that usa is the land of cars.....
 getting one in scandinavia (and northern europe) is not easy.
 average time is about 20 hours of training, and the cost is rather......
 but we think this is acceptable because a car is not a toy, and
 bad drivers tend to hurt others.
 (if you are really bad, you won't get a lincence!)
 
 abuse by the goverment:
 this seems to be one of the main problems; any harder gun-control
 would just be abused by the goverment.(!)
 either some of you are a little paranoid (no offence...) or you should
 get a new goverment. (you do have elections??)
 
 guns 'n criminals:
 most weapons used by criminals today are stolen.
 known criminals can not buy weapons, that's one of the points of gun control.
 and because gun control are strict in whole scandinavia (and most of europe),
 we dont have any problem with smuggled guns.
 
 mixing weapons and things that can be use as one:
 what i meant was that cars can kill, but they are not guns!
 someone said that if we 'ban' guns we'd have to ban cars to, because they 'kill' to...
 i don't think we should argue on this one..... ;)
 
 the issue (i hope..):
 i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem.
 guns are not a problem, but the way they are used is.... (and what are they for??)
 
 i think this discusion is interesting when you think of (ex)jugoslavia:
 they should all have weapons, it's their rigth to have them, and if they use them
 to kill other (innocent) people the problem is humans, not guns.
 
 if 50% of all murders was done with axes, would you impose some regulations on them
 or just say that they are ment to be used at trees, and that the axe is not a problem,
 it's the 'axer' ??
 (an example, don't flame me just because not exactly 50% are killed by guns...)
 
 think about the situation in los angeles where people are buying guns to protect
 themselves. is this a good situation ?? is it the rigth way to deal with the problem ??
 
 if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals (and their neighbor who have
 guns) what do you think will happen ?? (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa)
 
 don't flame the englishmen because of northern irland, they have gun control that works
 (in england) and fonds from usa are one of the reasons why ira can bomb innocents...
 (something about throwing stones in glass houses...)
 don't flame them because of what to (three?) children did either.
 (can an jugoslav have an oppinion on guns or even peace??) (yes!)
 
 (my numbers about crime rates after restrictions on shot-guns are from the police
 and the statistisk sentralbyraa) (understood that one sorenson??)
 
 last word:
 responsible gun owners are not a problem, but they will be affected if you want to protect 
 your citicens.
 
 
 
 	this is not a .signature.
 	it's merely a computergenerated text to waste bandwith
 	and to bring down the evil internet.
 
 
                         thomas parsli
                         thomasp@ifi.uio.no
 