A KEY figure in the independence movement has sensationally defected to Labour – and claimed many SNP activists really ARE hoping for a Tory victory.
Nicola Sturgeon’s election campaign suffered a major setback last night after Asians for Independence organiser Muhammad Shoaib resigned from her party in disgust.
Shoaib – who worked closely with SNP leaders during the referendum campaign - said he was “shocked” at the way senior SNP members in Sturgeon’s Glasgow constituency are secretly backing another five years of David Cameron.
The former Pollokshields SNP branch convener shared a platform with Sturgeon and former first minister Alex Salmond during the referendum campaign as their party stepped up efforts to reach out to Asian voters.
And Sturgeon publicly praised him as an “honourable man” in an election leaflet.
But he says he will now focus on helping Labour evict the Tories from Downing Street and ensuring Ed Miliband is the UK’s next Prime Minister.
He said: “Nobody campaigned harder for a Yes vote than I did. I led Asians for Independence and badly wanted Scotland to vote Yes. But that was last year’s vote.
“In a few weeks we will have a different vote to decide the Government and it’s a clear choice between five more years of the Tories or a jobs guarantee for young people, an &pound;8 minimum wage and a vote to protect the NHS with Labour.”
Record View
Businessman Shoaib, 62, vented his disgust at senior SNP figures who he claims hope the Tories will form the next UK Government because they think it will improve the chances of another independence referendum.
He said: “I have been a senior member of Nicola Sturgeon’s constituency for years and I am deeply saddened that many of my former colleagues in the SNP secretly hope for another Tory government.
“I have become more and more shocked that many in the SNP want to put the interests of the SNP before the interests of Scotland, and their secret hopes for a Tory government betray their true motives.
“I can no longer stay silent and stand idly by.”
And the father of four, a former Justice of the Peace, said: “That is why today I am backing Labour as the only party big enough and strong enough to kick the Tories out.”
 

The comments from Shoaib, a one-time Labour councillor who moved to the SNP in 2007, will be a serious headache for Sturgeon as she prepares for tonight’s crunch TV debate with the other Scottish party leaders.
The First Minister has staunchly denied claims in a leaked memo that she admitted to the French ambassador that she secretly hoped the Tories would win the election – an assertion which has been backed by the diplomat.
Labour have repeatedly insisted that voting SNP makes it more likely the Conservatives will win the election across the UK.
Former Scottish Labour deputy leader Anas Sarwar last night said he was “delighted” to have secured the backing of Shoaib.
Sarwar, who is fighting to retain the Glasgow Central seat, said: “I am delighted to have the backing of such a prominent Yes campaigner and respected figure.
“Muhammad Shoaib is right when he says that only Labour are big enough and strong enough to get rid of the Tories.
“The revelations that the SNP secretly hope for another Tory government come as no surprise. Nicola Sturgeon has said she wants people to vote Green in England and Plaid Cymru in Wales. But we know a vote for any other party only helps the Tories win.”
Shoaib put his name forward as an SNP candidate for Westminster earlier this year but lost out in a selection battle.
Recent polls show the SNP could pick up dozens of Scottish seats currently held by Labour.
SNP deputy leader Stewart Hosie yesterday insisted that his party would not prefer to see a Tory government.
“The damage Tory governments do to ordinary people is so bad,” he said.
 

Asked about the argument that a Tory government for another five years would boost support for a second referendum, he replied: “The arguments for and against independence stand on their own merits.
“This is definitely not a re-run of the referendum. This is about holding Westminster to account.”
He was asked a number of times whether he thought Ed Miliband was prime minister material.
Hosie first responded: “He is leader of the Labour party and therefore he potentially could be prime minister.”
He later added: “Of course I could see him as prime minister.
“We are an anti-Tory party, we are an anti-austerity party. We have offered Ed Miliband a deal.”
Prior to joining the SNP, Shoaib was caught up in a passport fraud inquiry reported by our sister paper the Sunday Mail.
He denied any wrongdoing and police decided no action should be taken against him.
Try our quick news quiz below:

