A FAILED doctor jailed for hoarding ingredients for a chemical bomb did not work alone, his brother has told the .
Faris al-Khori, 62, stockpiled chemicals capable of making bombs and toxic beans which could manufacture the poison ricin in his Edinburgh flat.
The Syrian medic – who was sentenced to 40 months yesterday – was only caught after a blaze at the tower block alerted firefighters to the deadly haul.
His brother Dr Fareed al-Khori, 56, a heart specialist in the US, told the Record his brother could not have carried out the bomb plot on his own and must have been “taken advantage of” by sinister forces behind the scenes.
Police and prosecutors believe Faris al-Khori acted alone following a massive police investigation involving more than 100 officers.
They concluded al-Khori – described as a “Walter Mitty-character” by his defence QC – was not connected to any terrorist group.
But his brother Fareed told the Record: “I believe someone was taking advantage of him. I don’t believe he did this alone.”
Detectives discovered Faris had failed his exams to practice medicine in the UK “more than ten times” since arriving here in 1984.
 

His brother denied that Faris’s failure to make the grade as a UK doctor – while he enjoyed his own highly successful career in North Carolina – led to his crimes.
He added: “That would not prompt him to do such things.”
Dr al-Khori was quizzed by FBI agents after his brother’s activities were discovered last April in a bid to uncover potential motives.
 He said: “The last time I spoke to him was when our mother died a few years ago. 
“I’ve been trying to figure out what’s going on.
“This is not my brother. This is not the person I knew. He’s not this kind of person.”
He said his family, including his brother, were practising Christians with no connections with “political issues or radical religions”.
Dr al-Khori is undergoing treatment for cancer in the States and is on leave from his job.
Yesterday, the High Court in Edinburgh was told his brother had tests while in prison to see if he could be a bone marrow donor for his sick sibling.
His cancer is being treated after another al-Khori brother in Syria was able to provide a bone marrow match and his prognosis is said to be “hopeful”.
 

Faris al-Khori, who trained as a doctor in Iraq but lived on benefits in Scotland, pled guilty to a breach of the 1883 Explosives Substances Act.
The chemicals were only unearthed by chance following a fire in a rubbish chute on the 11th floor of a tower block in Muirhouse, Edinburgh.
Firefighters forcing doors to check no one was inside nearby flats entered a property where al-Khori had a tenancy.
They found items that gave them cause for concern – including mustard jars containing white powder and one marked “weed killer” – and the building was evacuated.
 A search of al-Khori’s home in the Leith area of Edinburgh recovered  more potentially dangerous substances. 
Detective Superintendent David Gordon, who led the investigation, said al-Khori continually failed to pass medical exams through the Royal College of Surgeons and the General Medical Council.
Det Supt Gordon added: “It was one of the lines of inquiry that we looked at in terms of the potential frustration, but there was nothing to indicate he held any grudge.
“There was nothing to indicate motivation or identify any targeting of individuals or any link to a terrorism organsisation.”
 

Al-Khori moved from England to Edinburgh in the late 1980s where he met his wife Janet.
He never visited the Middle East again.
Al-Khori later became his wife’s carer after she suffered mental health problems, including schizophrenia.
Det Supt Gordon said al-Khori spent “vast amounts of time” on the internet, often looking at news sites, and was a “very private but very strange individual” and a “creature of habit”.
The officer said that the chemicals could have caused “considerable damage” if they had come into contact with the blaze in the high-rise.
 

Al-Khori acquired the chemicals online, mainly through Amazon, between 2007 and last April at a cost of &pound;691.
He also had large amounts of nails, ball bearings, rods, bolts and nuts which could be used in a bomb.
Officers initially feared he was part of a wide terror cell – perhaps acting as the storekeeper – but said their investigation showed he acted alone.
Defence counsel Brian McConnachie QC told the court yesterday: “The Crown accepts that he had never made or attempted to make any kind of improvised explosive device.”
McConnachie added: “This is a man for whom violence appears to be nowhere in his contemplation.”
 

The materials – which included acetone, hydrogen peroxide, mercury and lead picrate – were discovered in April last year after a fire in a communal area of a flat at Fidra Court in the Muirhouse area of Edinburgh.
Fire crews searching the building forced entry to a flat registered to al-Khori and found jars containing various powders.
Castor beans, which can be used to make ricin, were also found.
The building was evacuated while the substances – some of which were years old – were tested.
Handwritten notes and instructions which “appeared to be instructions on how to prepare explosives and bombs” were also discovered.
Further material was later unearthed at a property in Persevere Court, Leith, and explosives experts were called in again.
Passing sentence, Lady Wolffe said: “You assembled large quantities without lawful purpose and some were stored in a high rise flat in a densely populated area.
“They were only found by chance by the fire service.”
Al-Khori, who has been the full-time carer for his wife, was born in the Syrian capital of Damascus, and trained as a doctor in Iraq before moving to Austria.
He has been a British citizen since 1998 but has never practised medicine in the UK.
Try our quick news quiz below:

