AN Easter holiday trip turned to tragedy when a young couple died after their private plane crashed into an Argyll hillside.
David Rous and his wife Margaret Ann, of Newport-on-Tay, were flying from Dundee to spend the weekend with family on the isle of Tiree, when the accident happened.
Their PA28 Piper Cherokee light aircraft crashed into a remote hillside at Bein Nan Lus, on the northern aspect of Glen Kinglas, above Loch Etive, south of Oban, on Saturday afternoon.
The plane went off radar at 1.50pm and a huge air, land and sea search for the missing aircraft led to the grim discovery of the couple's bodies just over six hours later.
Mrs Rous was the daughter of Mrs Catriona Maclean, a widow, and has one sister, Joanne MacLean, who both live on Tiree.
John Macaskill, Vice Convener of Tiree Community Council, said the couple who died were only in their thirties and added: &quot;It's absolutely tragic what has happened, it's very sad, especially with them coming home for Easter. It's a major blow for the community.
&quot;Family and friends, as is done in Tiree, will gather round to support Mrs Maclean in her grief.&quot;
Another Tiree resident added: &quot;Margaret Ann and her husband were coming up to stay with her family for the Easter weekend, they had their own plane.
&quot;She went to school here but left the island quite a long time ago, she was a medical doctor.&quot;
An incident base remains at the emergency services rendezvous site at Inverawe, which was packed with rescue service personnel and vehicles throughout the massive search on Saturday.
Iain MacKinnon, Station Officer of Oban volunteer Coastguard Team who was part of the group searching the shores of Loch Etive on Saturday, said: &quot;At the loch surface it was almost perfect visibility but in terms of using the rescue helicopters they were very restricted because the cloud was down to 100 metres, it was way down on the hill, particularly the area where the crash site is - that was over 700 metres.
&quot;They took the mountain rescue guys as high as they possibly could, dropped them on it (the hill) to walk up from there.&quot;
He added: &quot;The problem with a plane crash is a plane is going quite fast, if you are going at 60 mph on the road a plane will go at 100mph, it's a fair impact at that kind of speed.&quot;
Aviation expert David Howitt, who retired recently after managing the small airfield at Glenforsa, on the isle of Mull for 50 years, said the aircraft appeared to have been on the normal route course for flight travel between Dundee and Tiree.
He said: &quot;I have a friend who comes from Dundee to Tiree, it's a fair old way, about 130 nautical miles, and the plane was smack on course, you would fly over from Tyndrum and come across the top of Loch Etive and then across the Sound of Mull.
&quot;I have been taking weather readings here for fifty years and on Saturday the weather was very, very dubious, there was some very poor visibility.&quot;
He said the Cherokee aircraft the couple were flying in was renowned as one of the most reliable light aircrafts and was often used for training purposes.
However, Mr Howitt added that one possibility may have been that the plane had been flying above the cloud level and had dropped down into the clouds due to engine failure.
But he stressed that until the Air Accident Investigation Branch had ascertained what happened no-one could possibly know.
Mr Howitt added: &quot;The sympathy of the aviation fraternity goes out to the family.&quot;
As forensic experts were airlifted to the scene of the crash police said that enquiries are continuing into the cause.
Chief Inspector Fergus Byrne who is leading the enquiry, said &quot;Specialist officers are at the scene and every effort is being made to recover the victims, investigate the circumstances then remove the wreckage of the plane, however, the area is very remote and the crash site extensive and as such it will take a considerable amount of time to complete our work.
&quot;Anyone with information regarding this incident is urged to contact police via the non-emergency number 101.&quot;
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

