A LAWYER kept &pound;90,000 from the grieving mum of a murder victim – then tried to convince her to loan the cash to his daughter.
William Renfrew held on to Kathleen Blue’s money for more than a year and repeatedly told the 81-year-old her inheritance payment had been hit with delays.
He then asked the OAP to buy a house for his daughter Leigh when her mortgage deal collapsed.
The solicitor, 59, was fined &pound;500 by the Law Society of Scotland and censured for unsatisfactory professional conduct.
But now the Scottish Legal Complaints Commission (SLCC) have ruled the original Law Society probe did not go far enough.
Kathleen’s son Alex, 41, was attacked outside his home in Dowanhill, Glasgow, in June 2002 and later died from head injuries.
He ran a successful business selling cars to the private hire taxi trade.
Hundreds of people, including underworld figures and leading businessmen, were quizzed by detectives over the murder but it remains unsolved.
SLCC watchdogs have also ordered the Law Society to pay Kathleen and her son Billy – Alex’s older brother – &pound;750 each in compensation for the flawed investigation.
The Blues made 10 complaints against Renfrew but only one – relating to the loan – was upheld by the Law Society. They’ve been told to reinvestigate the original complaints and five new ones.
 

Kathleen and Billy, 57, received &pound;91,500 as part of a court settlement over the &pound;140,000 estate left by tragic Alex. They say Renfrew held on to the award unnecessarily for more than a year and overcharged them for his services.
Renfrew admitted asking Kathleen and Billy for money to help Leigh, 29, buy a home after a loan application fell through. The Blues received a thank you card, thought to be from Leigh, even though they hadn’t agreed to give her the money.
The family donated the cash to the CHAS cancer charity instead.
Billy said: “We felt the Law Society investigation was a whitewash and they tried to protect one of their own.
“Renfrew should have been struck off for trying to borrow our money for his daughter – not given a fine and a slap on the wrist.
“He tried to take advantage of my mother who was still grieving the death of her son.
“This is not about the money. We will be giving any compensation we receive to the same charity.”
The Law Society of Scotland – who regulate the country’s 10,000 solicitors – have three months to reopen the investigation.
If they fail to investigate within time, the SLCC can take them to court and fine them up to &pound;5000.
Renfrew is also facing tougher sanctions arising out of any new Law Society probe.
In the original investigation, Renfrew – a former professional footballer with Partick Thistle – admitted asking the Blues for money to help his daughter. But he claimed it was only part of general advice he gave to them about how best to invest their cash.
While Alex left &pound;140,000 when he was murdered 13 years ago, he died without leaving a will. It took the Blues two years of legal wrangling – using Renfrew’s services – to have their claim settled.
They were told of the SLCC’s decision in a letter last month. It said: “The SLCC have been critical of the society’s reporting and decision-making in so far as the society missed a number of additional issues from the investigation and determination.
“We have recommended that the society should investigate the additional issues and reinvestigate the existing issues and arrange for the complaint to be reconsidered.”
The Blues received a letter of apology from the Law Society.
Kathleen added: “There is never a day when I do not think of Alex. It’s something that you never get over.
“We put our trust in this lawyer and he let us down. He knew we were vulnerable and tried to exploit it.”
Yesterday Renfrew declined to comment. The Law Society referred all comments to the SLCC, who said: “We can’t disclose information about individual complaints.”
