ALMOST everyone has a bucket list of goals in life, but how young should you start planning your discoveries and achievements?
Glasgow Life has come up with a list of 25 things to do before you’re five to help introduce their huge museums and gallery collection to young Glaswegians.
“Museum Mouse” covers all nine museums and gives an exhaustive adventure that will - presumably - leave even parents needing a nap.
Youngsters can go on a dragon hunt in the Burrell, visit the peephole in GoMA inspired by the inside of a whale, or dress up as a character from Sleeping Beauty at Kelvingrove.
They can count the animals carved on the Doulton Fountain outside the People’s Palace or copy the expressions on the heads in St Nicholas Garden outside Provand’s Lordship.
And at the Riverside Museum, junior Glaswegians can show off firefighting skills with a fire engine game.
St Mungo’s wants children to play eye spy overlooking the Necropolis, while Scotland Street School has old school uniforms and classrooms to explore and Glasgow Museums Resource Centre is also in on the action for pre-booked workshops or tours.
As these pictures show, Cameron, Molly and Eva had a great time at the People’s Palace and completed all three challenges - including smelling socks, apparently - and collected their stickers at the enquiry desk.


Chairman of Glasgow Life, Councillor Archie Graham, said: “Visitors continue to flock to all nine Glasgow Museums, with more than three million attendances recorded last year alone. A huge number of these are by families with small children. When you look at the incredible objects on display it is easy to see how with a little imagination and explanation the city’s museums can open up a whole new world to even the youngest of visitors.
“I am delighted the Under 5’s have been set their own challenge. I know that if parents can spare a little time to help them enjoy the many adventures detailed in this new booklet, they could give their child a lifelong love of exploring, investigating and enjoying arts and culture. And I think that is a truly wonderful gift to give the next generation.”
Any Glasgow museum has the 25 Things booklet and www.glasgowmuseums.com has all the information on opening times and transport options.
