AS his success soars, jewellery designer Euan McWhirter will always be grateful to some gorgeous Lucky Bitches.
Lucky Bitches – the stunning rings which made a name for the Scots designer – have adorned the rich and famous and are now a must-have for fashionistas.
Their cheeky name was a nod to a French and Saunders spoof of Jackie and Joan Collins.
As the blurb goes, they are: “A swirling ball of hand-cut glass spinning on a Swarovski encrusted shank. Bold, fun and glamorous, what more could a girl ask for in a ring?”
As well as making it to the pages of top glossies, they have become a favourite among some big names.
 Kylie Minogue wore one on a magazine shoot to celebrate 25 years in the business, Laura Bailey chose it for a series of pictures and Shirley Manson sported a Lucky Bitch for an interview on the Chelsea Lately show. 
Euan, 35, said: “The design has helped to make my name and I couldn’t believe it when the email came through asking if I could supply one for Kylie.
“Then Laura Bailey and Shirley Manson. It was really exciting and a real boost for the business.
“I have always loved Shirley Manson. I grew up listening to Garbage. She’s Scottish and very cool.”
 In his Glasgow workshop, he produces exquisite pieces, “feminine with a touch of punk”. His pearl spike collar epitomises his style – feminine with a feisty edge. 
His work is special but for the most part affordable and few reach the price bracket of his super-sized giant chandelier earrings, which cost just over &pound;1000.
As a child growing up in Troon, Ayrshire, Euan knew that he wanted to work in a creative business. He used to make body armour from whatever materials were kicking about and his fascination with product construction was shown in the many toys and electronics he took apart and put together again.
 

His mum and lorry driver dad were supportive but worried that he should get a “proper job” if he was going to make a living.
Euan said: “I think growing up in the west coast, my dad would have had more confidence in me doing something manual or labour intensive. I think he thought that making jewellery was messing about.”
But they are happy now they see what a success Euan has made. He said: “They were supportive and never tried to stop me. They were just concerned and I can understand that.”
As a child, he had a low boredom threshold and found escape in art and sketching clothes, inspired by afternoons in front of the Clothes Show.
Euan said: “I think the 80s were inspiring – about being bold with colour and expressing yourself. I always loved fashion as a way to express myself.”
After school, he studied design at Ayr College and was then accepted by the prestigious Central Saint Martins University in London – a world-leading centre for art and design education.
He was only 19 and it was a huge leap to find himself transported to the whirl of London. He said: “It was a shock.
“I was still growing up and I had to find my way. I studied hard but I could also be a bit of a tearaway. I went out a lot. I did learn an enormous amount and it was an incredible start for me.“
After graduating, he returned home to work for various jewellers before he felt compelled to return to London. He was hired by jewellery legends Erickson Beamon. That immersed him in a world of high fashion, working for a Vogue staple beloved by the likes of Madonna and Sarah Jessica Parker.
 

Suddenly, Euan found himself jetting around the world and being part of Paris Fashion Week.
But when recession hit in 2008, he lost his job. That was that catalyst he needed to make it on his own.
He returned home, regrouped and started working towards his own brand. Euan said: “I was upset to lose my job but it did give the kick I needed to start up on my own.”
He was chosen by fashion legend and journalist Hilary Alexander to be one of the industry’s Bright Young Gems.
The initiative is renowned for unveiling future stars in the contemporary jewellery world.
Subsidising his plans with freelance work, Euan realised his dream of setting up his label and the firm has blossomed.
He recently travelled to India with Scottish Development International, visiting Mumbai, Jaipur and Delhi to promote the brand, meeting potential suppliers and buying a few stones along the way.

While his brand goes from strength to strength, he is confident but grounded and he is grateful to wake up looking forward to coming up with new creations.
Euan said: “I do appreciate that every day I get to do something I love and still be self-sufficient. It has taken a while to get established but I’m happy with what I have achieved so far.
“I think being from Scotland, we can be down on ourselves but it is important to recognise that we can achieve a lot and it doesn’t matter where you start out.”

