HAMPDEN hero Craig  Sibbald’s Hibs-supporting brother netted a tidy sum at the bookies by backing the Falkirk star to score in Saturday’s Scottish Cup semi-final.
Big brother Gary, 23, opted to watch the game on television while the rest of the family  went to Glasgow to see the  Bairns defeat the Hibees 1-0.
But an hour before kick-off  he decided to bet on Craig to score the first goal – after missing out on a windfall two years ago when he netted in Falkirk’s 4-3 defeat to Hibs at the same  stage of the competition.
And yesterday, Gary was proudly tweeting about Craig’s match-winning header – and how it had netted him a pay-out of more than &pound;200.
He wrote: “Forget Hibs, someone get me a Falkirk top cause I’m wearing it up the  town the night.”
Gary’s mum and dad, brother Ross and another 10 family and friends went to the national stadium – but he couldn’t face joining them.
He told the Record: “It was a bit too hard. You are watching one team going up one end and you’re thinking it would be  good if they scored.
“And then you’re watching your own team going up  the other end and thinking  the same.”

Gary put a tenner on at 14-1 for his brother to score the  first goal, and another &pound;10 at odds of 9-2 for him to score at any time.
He added: “The reason I did that was because the last  time they played Hibs in the semi-final in 2013, Craig was 16-1 to score first.
“I never put a bet on but my mum stuck a couple of pounds on. I thought I can’t be hit by the same misfortune twice. It softened the blow of Hibs getting beat anyway.”
 

Mum Patricia, a receptionist, said: “Apart from Gary, the rest of the family are Falkirk fans and never miss a game. But Gary was taken to a Hibs game by his uncle Eric from Edinburgh when he was young.
“Two years ago, Gary was at the game and he was sitting in the Hibs end and he felt mixed emotions when Craig scored.
“So he said he wasn’t  going on Saturday because if he’d sat in the Hibs end, he couldn’t celebrate if Craig scored.”
Now Gary is looking forward to next month’s final – and he’ll definitely be at Hampden to cheer his brother on.
Match-winner Craig, 19, told us after the match that Gary had sent him a good luck message before kick-off.
He said: “Gary sent me a really emotional text saying he was proud of me and Hibs came second. He said whatever happened he  was proud of me and told me to get a goal.”

