SCOTS have been hit by almost 300,000 benefits sanctions under David Cameron’s Tory Government.
The penalties cover Employment and Support Allowance and Jobseeker Allowance claims from July 2010 to September last year.
The findings follow hot on the heels of hard-hitting reports on the cost of welfare reform across the UK’s most deprived communities.
Studies have shown Con-Dem reforms are taking more than &pound;1.6billion a year out of the Scottish economy.
SNP work and pensions spokeswoman Eilidh Whiteford said: “From cuts to vital public services, illogical welfare sanctions and the fiasco of universal credit, the UK Government has shown they have no understanding of just how much their welfare cuts damage people’s lives.
 

“Benefit sanctions in particular are one of the main reasons people are having to turn to food banks.
“The shambles they have presided over when it comes to welfare and the fact Labour have joined them in voting for more cuts shows why we need a strong team of SNP MPs in Westminster.”
Pamela Nash, Scottish Labour candidate for Airdrie and Shotts, compiled the latest figures on sanctions in a series of parliamentary questions at Westminster. She said: “These figures are deeply worrying and do nothing to dispel the rumours about Tory sanction targets being forced on JobCentre Plus.
“I constantly see constituents whose benefits have been unfairly sanctioned and who are no longer entitled to a crisis loan.
“We all know one of the biggest causes driving people to foodbanks is this Tory Government’s policy of sanction first, worry later.
 

“The Tories are happy to kick people off benefits and send them to food banks – and as we saw in the TV debates, David Cameron can’t even remember how many people are using them.
“There must not be targets for sanctions and the system of hardship payments must work to protect the most vulnerable.”
But Scottish Tory welfare spokesman Alex Johnstone said: “It’s scandalous that Pamela Nash is using this for political gain.
“Our measures have actually worked in reducing poverty by getting people off benefits and back to work. We stood up to the challenge of welfare reform to get the country back on its feet.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

