
 i thought i'd post my predicted standings since i find those posted by others
 to be interesting.  sorry this is after opening day.  i certify that these
 were completed before the first pitch. :-)
 
 al east
 1.  new york yankees - the most (only?) improved team in this division
 2.  toronto blue jays - stewart and morris?  no way.
 3.  milwaukee brewers - they always seem to do better than i expect
 4.  baltimore orioles - pitching, but devareaux, anderson, and hoiles will drop
 5.  cleveland indians - still don't seem to know what they are doing
 6.  detroit tigers - all key players but fryman are another year past peak
 7.  boston red sox - any team with clemens and viola might be beter than 7th
 
 al west - this division was the toughest for me to pick.  whoever of the top
           4 gets pitching should win it.
 1.  minnesota twins - young pitchers seem to have best chance for success
 2.  texas rangers - i don't know why i have them here.  jose canseco?
 3.  chicago white sox - frank thomas but no pitching.
 4.  oakland a's - larussa is the best manager and would keep any team close
 5.  seattle mariners - i like pinella, but don't see much here
 6.  kansas city royals - will score no runs
 7.  california angels - will win no games
 
 nl east
 1.  montreal expos - good all around, plus no wallach!
 2.  st. louis cardinals - (jeffries + whiten) >> (jose + clark), no galarraga
 3.  pittsburgh pirates - youngsters will take up more slack than expected
 4.  new york mets - some good players, still not a "team"
 5.  philadelphia phillies - they don't impress me
 6.  florida marlins - they know what they're doing
 7.  chicago cubs - they don't know what they're doing
 
 nl west - the 2 best teams in baseball are in this division.
 1.  atlanta braves - awesome starters, but offense could be a concern
 2.  cincinnati reds - would not surprise me if they won it all
 3.  houston astros - any team that signs uribe won't contend. closer to 4 than 2
 4.  san diego padres - plantier could be the sheffield of 1993
 5.  los angeles dodgers - better pitching than the giants
 6.  san francisco giants - because the rockies just stink
 7.  colorado rockies - will become the seattle mariners of the nl.
 
 
 nlcs  montreal d. atlanta  (braves fans, yes i'm probably contradicting
                             what i said in my nl west comment.)
 alcs  new york d. minnesota
 
 world series  new york d. montreal - hating the yankees will be
                                      fashionable again
 
 nl mvp:  barry bonds, or maybe mcgriff
 nl cy young:  jose rijo
 al mvp:  frank thomas will deserve it (again), but fielder might win it
 al cy young:  roger clemens (at least will deserve it (again))
 
 -- 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 david kenney                                       kenney@tribe.b17d.ingr.com
 