
 
 so far simmons looks like a total idiot.
 
 
 1) zane smith should learn how to "switchpitch" and return from the dl. i
 would rather have zane smith pitch right handed than have moeller pitch at all.
 
 2) i am sure simmons was ready to say i told you so after otto had an
 impressive win last week. now otto's latest debacle has restored simmon's
 reputation. now he looks like he is back in his '92 form when he had the
 al's highest era among starters. four our sake(not ted's sake), i hope he
 pitches with a 3.5 era for the rest of the season. yeah, right.
 
 3) tomlin and merced are a bit disappointing. they are still doing decently.
 but considering the considerable amount of talent and maturity they have
 shown their first seasons, they seem to have actually gotten a little
 bit worse. tomlin was almost unhittable his rookie year against lefty batters.
 merced had a very good oba his rookie year. he showed a lot of concentration at
 the plate in his rookie year.
 
 4) walk: well, he seems to be on the losing end tonight. but i still think that
 walk desrved his contract.
 
 5) leyland should accept a part of the blame for the lavalliere situation. i
 can't understand his and management's fear of losing tom prince through
 waivers. even if they do, what's the use. he is aright hander like slaught.
 not a very smart platoon. also, i am blaming leyland in this case, since he is hcurrently    convinced that lavalliere is through, while giving him
 way too much time last year in the regular season and the playoffs(slaught
 should have played in all 7 games; he has a good average against right handed
 pitching). didn't leyland and simmons forsee this last year, and attempt to
 trade lavalliere last year itself? any fool could tell them lavalliere
 wasn't very fit last year.
 
 6) dennis moeller is scary!!!
 7) candeleria: well, he is not going to have such a high era at the end of the
 season. maybe it will be in 3-4 range. but $1 million  plus? come on. other
 than the customary home run giving stage patterson goes through for a few weeks,
 patterson has served the pirates very well each year. so far, he seems to have
 pitched well for the rangers. i think the pirates should have spent the money
 on patterson in stead.
 
 8) the rookie batters: well, young has surprised me a bit with his instant impact. other than that, their excellent performance hasn't been too much of a surprise. i think we should thank doughty for that.
 
 9) rookie pitchers: worse than expected, especially cooke.
 10) slaught: how come he wasn't given a contract extension last year? now his
 value has increased immensely.
 
 11) lonnie smith!! well, eric davis was signed for a comparable amount.
 let's see. eric can hit better. he can run better. he can field better.
 now why didnt the pirates go after eric davis. an injured davis is better
 than a healthy lonnie smith. even if lonnnie smith gets some big hits this year,he won't be an asset. he has looked terrible on the bases and in the field.
 
 12) management: big big zero. sauer has yet to make a forceful agreement
 in favor of revenue sharing. he seems more concerned about pleasing that
 idiot danforth by preparing the team for a move to tampa bay.
 13) alex cole fiasco. the pirates infield and cf positions look good. the
 rf and lf would have looked good if we could have gotten cole to replace
 two of the four outfielders. eric davis, van slyke and cole would have made a
 very respectable outfield. even without eric davis, thye pirates would have
 a respectable outfield with cole, svan slyke, and merced(i think he should hit
 left handed against lefts in stead of switch hitting). simmons did have options
 for the outfield. ironically, the biggest accomplishment of simmon's tenure was
 getting alex cole really cheap. too bad.
 
 14) compensatory draft picks for bonds: forget it. the pirates can rant and rave.
 they will not get those picks. as of now, the issue is still being appealed.
 now, if this doesnt convince anyone that simmons and sauer are idiots,
 nothing else will.
 
 on a final note. tim wakefield won't be as awful as he was in his last 2
 starts. but don't count on him pitching like last year for the rest of
 the season. also, if the pirates are in contention towards rthe end of the
 season, they will miss redus's clutch hitting and his speed(he has peaked
 in the second half of the last 2 seasons)>
 
 
 -pravin ratnam
 