
 why did i get sucked into this?
 
 in article <1993apr19.035406.11473@news.yale.edu> (austin jacobs) writes:
 >don't you guys think so?  i mean, c'mon!  what the heck are women doing
 >even thinking of getting into baseball.  they cause so many problems.  just
 
 assuming you're serious, i guess you'd be surprised to hear
 that us guys don't think so. i would guess that a tiny fraction
 of 1% of the folks reading your post agree with it. i kind of
 doubt that even you agree with it.
 
 i'm not going to go through your points one at a time, because, 
 after all, not many of them have anything at all to do with baseball.
 
 i'm only replying to this because you brought up pam postema, the
 aaa umpire who sued (is suing?) baseball on the grounds of sex
 discrimination because she wasn't promoted to the majors.
 
 >jeez!  look at pam postema.  just because she's a woman, everybody on the
 >face of the earth thinks it's great that she's getting an opportunity to
 >ump.  if you even watched the games and had an iq greater than that of
 >roast beef, you'd see that she is not nearly as good as most aaa umpires.
 
 i've never seen her ump a game. i have no first hand experience
 with her ability as an umpire.
 
 but i have seen her on talk shows. and her point seems to be
 that she can call balls and strikes as well as any of the
 umpires and she knows the rulebook better than most. it seems
 to me that she is missing the point and if that's how she sees
 the role of umpires in the game, well i wouldn't promote her
 either.
 
 the umpires primary role has nothing to do with calling baserunners
 safe or out; hell, joe lundy could do that. their primary function is
 to maintain order in the game, keep the game moving, and keep the
 players from trying to kill each other. 
 
 umpires have to be extremely tough people. that disqualifies most
 of us, both men and women. and if ms. postema thinks that she
 deserves to be a major league umpire because of her command of
 the rulebook, then i think that disqualifies her as well. umpires
 need to command the game; command of the rulebook is secondary.
 
 
 
 -- 
 dave eisen                               "to succeed in the world, it is not
 dkeisen@leland.stanford.edu               enough to be stupid, you must also
 sequoia peripherals: (415) 967-5644       be well-mannered." --- voltaire
 home:                (415) 321-5154  
 