
 
 no, he's not nuts, wip is second to none the sports station.  they
 don't have tony bruno working espn radio and al morganti doing friday
 night hockey because they suck.  i live in richmond va, but i visit
 phila often, and on the way i get wtem washington) and wip.  i hear
 the fan at night wherever i go (the signal used to be wnbc, when they
 played golden oldies) because you can't avoid it.  of those three,
 wip has the best hosts hands down.  chuck cooperstein isn't a homer,
 and neither is jody mac.  wtem is too generic to be placed in the
 catergory.  in fact if you have heard wtem and the fan you notice the
 theme music is identical...same ownership?? i think so!  wip is
 totally original.  their hosts actually have a personality (this is a
 knock at tem (the team) not the fan because mike and the mad dog and
 sommers are good) i mean comparing the morning guys in philadelphia
 to the ones in washington is a total joke.  anyway, i like the fan
 and wip, but i think the edge goes to 'ip.  
 
 when i get back from philly, i go into withdraw cause richmond has
 nada except the national sports line (and those guys are totally
 clueless)   
 i was really mad when wcau was cancelled because they had steve
 fredericks doing sports phone after the phillies games.  (wcau is
 another strong station, now it's an oldies station, but they still
 have the phillies) i started listening to the fan because i heard he
 went there.  i finally heard him last summer and he wasn't the same
 guy.  those ny fans got to him.  i was glad to hear him back in
 philly when i went to see a few eagles games.  
 
 
 i will admit, i am  die hard eagles fan and wip is basically an
 eagles station 365 days a year.  but, i bet you the phillies are in
 control right now.
 
 
 about the knock on g. cobb, i like him.  he knows the eagles like a
 book.  i remember the weekend before they went to play san fran,
 (when everyone thought the eagles would be blown away) cobb said that
 the eagles usually play their best when no one believe they can win.
 well they were inches shy of pulling the victory.  
 
 well that's my $.02
 