
 in article <93095@hydra.gatech.edu>
 gt7469a@prism.gatech.edu (brian r. landmann) writes:
  
 >joe torre has to be the worst manager in baseball.
 >
 >for anyone who didn't see sunday's game,
 >
 >with a right hander pitching he decides to bench lankform, a left handed
 >hitter and play jordan and gilkey, both right handers.
 >
 >later, in the ninth inning with the bases loaded and two outs he puts
 >lankford, a 300 hitter with power in as a pinch runner and uses luis
 >alicea, a 250 hitter with no power as a pinch hitter.  what the hell
 >is he thinking.
 >
 for your information, lankford is injured (i think it is his shoulder or rib
 cage), so he could not use him as a pinch hitter.
  
 >earlier in the game in an interview about acquiring mark whiten he commented
 >how fortunate the cardinals were to get whiten and that whiten would be a
 >regular even though this meant that gilkey would be hurt, but torre said
 >he liked gilkey coming off the bench.  gilkey hit over 300 last year,
 >what does he have to do to start, the guy would be starting on most every
 >team in the league.
 >
 i do believe that whiten was a very good aquisition for the cards.  he does
 not have too much offensive capabilities, but he is an awesome defensively.
 since when have the cardnials actually thought of offense instead of defense?:)
 i forgot who st. louis gave up for him, but it was not too much.
  
 as far as gilkey is concerned, he is a leftfielder and so is brian jordan, who
 beat him out.  i expect to see a gilkey/jordan platoon in lf.
  
 >furthermore, in sundays game when lankford was thrown out at the plate,
 >the replay showed bucky dent the third base coach looking down the line
 >and waving lankford home,
 >
 i agree with you on this one.  as soon as larkin threw that ball, i knew that
 lankford was a dead bird.  but how could dent have known that larkin would make
 a perfect throw?
  
 i strongly believe that torre is one of the best managers in baseball.  don't
 forget the overachieving cards of '91 that won all those close games and went
 from last place to second place (although they were oveshadowed by the braves/
 twins last to first climb).  he won a division title, and barely lost a pennant
 race when he was with the braves (why atlanta ever even considered firing him i
 will never understand).  with torre at the controls, the cardinals are heading
 in the right direction.
  
 one more thing, one game does not make a season.  yes, they lost to the reds,
 but with the second best pitching staff in the national league (first in the
 east), and a pretty good offense, the redbirds will win a lot more than they
 lose.  maybe this is the year that they will go all the way.
  
 charles, a very enthusiastic cardnials fan
  
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   º charles rosen            º      thirty-four to thirteen!!!    º
   º university of alabama    º   national champs!!!  roll tide!!! º
   º tuscaloosa, al           º         (need i say more?)         º
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
 