
 
 ecaxron@ariel.lerc.nasa.gov (ron graham) writes:
 
 >i hesitate to make assumptions about other people when they write, but
 >neither of you two *sound* as though you have kids, and you may not have
 >spouses either.
 
 i wonder why you say that?  i don't see why having a spouse and/or
 kids would have anything to do with it.  it might if you brought
 your kids to the game and wanted them to get home in time to get
 to bed at a reasonable hour (in which case i'd probably decide
 to take my kids to games on weekends, as many people do, or else
 be prepared to leave the game early), but from what you say later
 on, you don't bring your kids *or* your spouse to the game.
 as it happens, i have a husband but no kids, and my husband usually
 attends games with me.
 
 >extra innings could put me
 >well past midnight.  even without extra innings, if the score is beyond
 >2-1 i can't see my family that night at all.  if the next day is a workday,
 >i may have to bag that as well.  
 
 i can see it's a problem if you don't bring your wife to the ballgame,
 but that's a problem even if the game goes a trim 2 1/2 hours.  as far
 as bagging work the next day, i don't really understand why that's
 necessary, unless going to a game also means that you consume vast
 quantities of beer (i note that this is the case for many guys).
 if you don't think you can get up to go to work after a long evening
 out, then don't have long evenings out during the week.
 
 >all that stuff enters into my consideration of even going to a game.  if
 >you say you don't care about whether the game is sped up, impo you are 
 >saying you don't care where the time goes, and that the game is for people
 >who don't have families and don't have to get up for work the next day.
 
 look: if i pay between $8.00 and $20.00 apiece for tickets, plus $10.00 
 for parking, plus spending my time and energy driving to and from boston, 
 plus spending additional money on concessions etc. at the ballpark, then 
 i see going to a game as a considerable investment of time and money.
 i can't afford to go to a lot of games.  hence, going to a game is a
 big deal, like going to a play or an opera.  maybe you have more money than 
 i do and can go to games all year long, so it's not such a big deal for you.  
 but i'm not interested in having games "sped up", any more than i want to
 have _die walkure_ cut down to a convenient "weeknight version" of two
 hours.  if i felt that going to a night game during the week would interfere 
 with my family life or my work life, then i'd choose to go to a weekend game.
 
 impo.
 
 heather
 hhenderson@vax.clarku.edu
 