
 in article <1993apr20.085508.5787@wvnvms.wvnet.edu> nflynn@wvnvms.wvnet.edu writes:
 >	i agree that hirschbeck was just doing what he was instructed to do
 >and also that gant should have listened to him.  however, what is with this
 >policy of trying to speed up the games.  you are the first person 
 >( non-mediot ) i have seen endorse this policy. 
 
 i wholeheartedly endorse it.
 
  i have no problem with the
 >length of games at all and am tired of the espn crowd ( and other announcers )
 >bitching about it. i have never been in a ballpark filled with people looking
 >at their watches and shouting "hurry up!"  if i cough up big bucks for a 
 >ticket, i don't mind a game that last more than 2:10.  i really don't
 >understand it.  
 
 haven't been to many a's games, have you?
 
 seriously, i don't mind a baseball game that lasts a long time if it lasts
 a long time because there is good baseball being played.  however, i don't
 like 3-2 games that take 3+ hours, because there's a lot of dead time going
 on in that game.  i don't find anything exciting about watching batter or
 pitcher wander around between pitches, or watching the catcher make a slow
 walk to the mound, or watching lots of pitcher changes for no good reason
 (whitey herzog used to be the master of this; the game could be way out of
 reach, and he'd still be making switches for platoon advantage).  
 
 i want to see the game, not people standing around.  i don't really enjoy
 watching nfl football games in person, for example, because there's so much
 dead time (you don't really notice how much dead time there is if you watch
 it on television, because they're busy showing you replays).  i don't like
 that college basketball games have so many time outs at the end of the game
 (the ncaa has made some moves to try to alleviate this problem for next
 year: they're going to stop the clock after made baskets late in games next
 year, and they're going to a 35 second clock).  
 
 there's also a difference in how tolerant i am of long games if i'm
 watching them on the tube, and if i'm going there in person.  for me, going
 to an a's game has become a major commitment of time, one that i'm not
 willing to make that often:  the length of their games is costing the a's
 revenue from me.
 
 sherri nichols
 snichols@adobe.com
 
 
 