
 kubey@sgi.com (ken kubey) said:
 
 >i suppose a foul ball machine (like brett butler) is pretty valuable,
 >but i'd rather watch (and root for) the lower obp guys who can
 >actually hit the ball.
 
 now *this* is a legitimate point.  baseball is entertainment, and i have no
 quarrel with people who find certain styles of play more entertaining than
 others, regardless of their win-value.  personally, i'm a huge fan of the
 slug-bunt; i doubt it's a high-percentage play, but i get a big kick out of
 it.  i am willing to live with the bad consequences in exchange for the fun.
 
 of course, this is *not* the same as claiming (as some do) that galarraga's
 inability to defer gratification isn't hurting his team because he "isn't
 paid to walk" or "is an rbi guy" or whatever.
 
 >and finally, i'd like to point out that many high obp guys draw 
 >their walks more because pitchers are afraid to throw a strike
 >to them, than because they have a great "eye"
 
 i'm not sure.  i used to think this was true, but more and more i'm becoming
 convinced that it's the other way around: among players with the physical
 ability to hit the ball real hard, the patient ones are the ones who get the
 chance to do it a lot.
 
 let's break down the four basic categories of hitter, according to whether
 they are power threats and whether they walk a lot:
 
 
 			power			no power
 
 	patient		frank thomas		brett butler
 			barry bonds		ozzie smith
 			mark mcgwire		craig grebeck
 			babe ruth		miller huggins
 			ted williams		billy hamilton
 			rickey henderson	eddie joost
 			joe morgan		mike hargrove
 			   .			   .
 			   .			   .
 			   .			   .
 
 	impatient	ernie banks		ozzie guillen
 			dave kingman		shawon dunston
 			joe carter		andres thomas
 			george bell		jose lind
 			kirby puckett		devon white
 	etc.
 
 as far as i can tell, all the categories are full.  it really looks like the
 two are independent.  nobody could possibly be *afraid* of craig grebeck at
 the plate, and yet he walks quite a lot.  part of that, undoubtedly, is being
 small of stature, but surely major league pitchers can hit that sort of 
 target at least 3 times out of 6.  randy milligan is an even better example;
 he's only shown noticeable power for one (partial) season, but he walks all
 over the place, despite his huge strike zone.
 
 
 -- 
    david m. tate   (dtate+@pitt.edu) |  greetings, sir, with bat not quick 
      member iie, orsa, tims, sabr    |  hands not soft, eye not discerning
                                      |  and in denver they call you a slugger?
    "the big catullus" galarraga      |  and compare you to my own mattingly!?
 