
 icop@csa.bu.edu (antonio pera) writes:
 
 
 > hispanic magazine(april 1993) had a couple of interesting articles about
 >hispanic players including its hispanic all-star team. 
 >some of the major points are:
 
 	npr's morning edition aired a report this morning (4/19) on
 	hispanic/latin american players in mlb and how they have many of
 	the same problems faced by black/negro/african american players
 	when they first entered the league.  however, although baseball
 	has adjusted to the presence of black players, many hispanic
 	players still labor under the stereotype of being "fireballs,
 	hot blooded, flashy".  the report also emphasised that despite
 	the rantings (my word) of jessie jackson about baseballs
 	discrimination against black players in its upper echelons,
 	baseball has actually done much better by black players than
 	hispanic players.
 
 	another interesting point was the language barrier problem.  the
 	reporter elaborated on an interview with ruben sierra which he
 	gave in spanish to a spanish speaking newspaper reporter with
 	the fact that there are maybe 2 major baseball writers that
 	speak spanish, despite the fact that spanish is one of (if not
 	the) easiest languages to learn, so easy that the author cormac
 	mccarthy learned spanish at age 50 in order to research his
 	book, _all the pretty horses_.  yet, few mlb organizations
 	employ spanish speaking personel, one of the exceptions being
 	the oakland a's.
 
 	another point:
 
 	nearly 90% of latin american players have some african blood.
 	yet, most report that they'd never really felt black until
 	playing ball in the us.
 
   
 	ironically enough, it is the early presence of latin american
 	baseball players in the major leagues that support the idea that
 	baseball was integrated before the arrival of jackie robinson,
 	as many "light black" or "brown", latin americans were
 	incorporated into baseball. 
 
 	/s
 -- 
 "i did not know the cure for the disease      ------------------- 
  of images, but i believed in the healing     |  sandra vigil   | 
  power of words and stories."                 |  vigil@esca.com |    
              - until the end of the world     ------------------- 
 