
 
 
 the media is beating the incident at dodger stadium on wednesday to
 death, but i haven't seen anything in rsb yet.
 
 gerald perry of the cardinals pinch hit in the eighth inning with two
 on and his club down by a run.  he stroked a line drive into the
 right field corner.  the ball cleared the three-foot high fence and
 went into the crowd.  darryl, racing over from right center, got to
 the spot in time to reach his glove up over the short fence, but he
 missed the ball.  a fan sitting in the front row, wearing a mitt,
 reached up and caught the ball.  home run.
 
 now i've seen the replay several times and i have concluded that
 darryl missed the ball, and that the fan's glove was essentially
 behind darryl's.  several dodger fans with seats in the immediate
 vicinity have claimed that the fan unquestionably interfered with
 strawberry.  what cannot be disputed, however, is that the fan
 who caught the ball never took his eye off it;  he was oblivious
 to where the fielder was playing.  he was also quite exuberant as
 soon as he realized he had made the catch.
 
 that exuberance disappeared immediately, however, when strawberry
 went into a tirade at the man.  all reports indicate he used a lot
 of profanity and accused the man of interference, and therefore of
 costing the dodgers a game.  shortly afterwards other fans hurled
 food and beverages toward the man who made the catch.  dodger stadium
 officials started to remove him from the park, but then relented and
 just relocated him to another area.  in an interview after the game,
 lasorda blamed the fan for the loss.  strawberry also went into a
 tirade about how the fans are stupid and they don't care about 
 winning.  l.a. times columnists similarly blasted the man who made
 the catch.
 
 before each dodger game the public address announcer makes a speech
 wherein he says that fans are welcome to the souvenirs of balls that
 are hit into the stands as long as they do not interfere with any 
 that are in the field of play.  was the fan wrong?  should he have
 been more aware of the situation and acted to avoid any possibility
 of interference?  or was he human and just reacting?  by the way, he
 is a season ticket holder and on his request the dodgers have relocated
 his seats to another area of the stadium where future interference is
 impossible.
 
 others have questioned why darryl should be so concerned with what
 the fan did when he has a grand total of 1 rbi through the first
 nine games.
 
 i question what he was doing in right center with a left-handed pull
 hitter up and the game on the line.  had he been closer to the play,
 he certainly would have had a much better chance of catching the ball.
 
 but i guess the big debate continues as to what are the responsibilities
 of the fan.
 
 
 
 --	the beastmaster
 
 
 
 -- 
 mark singer    
 mss@netcom.com
 