
 in article <1993apr19.194025.8967@adobe.com>, 
 snichols@adobe.com (sherri nichols) writes:
 
 	[stuff about ron gant incident deleted] 
 > a reasonable umpire would do as he's been instructed to do this season: get
 > the batters back in the box sooner to try to cut down on the ridiculous
 > length of games.  i for one am glad to see this happen, (!!!!)
 
 	i agree that hirschbeck was just doing what he was instructed to do
 and also that gant should have listened to him.  however, what is with this
 policy of trying to speed up the games.  you are the first person 
 ( non-mediot ) i have seen endorse this policy.  i have no problem with the
 length of games at all and am tired of the espn crowd ( and other announcers )
 bitching about it.  i have never been in a ballpark filled with people looking
 at their watches and shouting "hurry up!"  if i cough up big bucks for a 
 ticket, i don't mind a game that last more than 2:10.  i really don't
 understand it.  
 
 	games are longer now for several reasons:  more pitching changes,
 more basestealing ( and throws to first ), etc...i think a very small factor
 is the increased time it takes jose canseco/ deion sanders/ [insert fancy
 showboat ballplayer here] to arrange their jewelry prior to stepping in the
 batter's box.  my impression is that sportcasters and writers have made this
 an issue because they like shorter games - they get to head back to hotel
 bar, eat steaks, get drunk, tell stupid jokes with their pals and chase
 stewardesses around the bar.  sure they want the game over with.  print 
 journalists have a slightly more legitimate reason for wanting faster games:
 they have deadlines.  the espn guys on baseball tonight drive me crazy - they
 constantly harp on this - primarily because they often have to work late 
 when the game goes longer than 2:30.
 
 	maybe i am just a ne'er-do-well with nothing better to do, but i 
 would like to hear reasons why the longer games upset you.
 
 	as a parenthetical note, it seems the league is in any case fighting
 a losing battle this year.  the increased offense thus far will certainly 
 spoil any hopes of getting the games over with more quickly.
 
 					nick flynn
 
  
 