
 tim shippert recently posted summaries of last year's defensive average
 stats in terms of the linear weights estimated run-value of defensive
 performances, compared to league average.  i've combined those with my
 position-adjusted mlv numbers to come up with first-approximation total
 run values for players last year.  we can use these as a springboard for
 reconsideration of the mvp award.
 
 major caveats:  these numbers include no defensive park adjustment, so if
 san diego really is just a question of odd scoring or gopher holes in the
 infield, that will cause some inaccuracies.  the offensive numbers are
 position-adjusted, but not park adjusted, so we have to deflate some and
 inflate others to be fair.  finally, we still don't know what to do about
 catchers, and i have no idea how to evaluate the defensive contributions 
 of tony phillips and bip roberts.  
 
 having said that, there are still some surprises.  let's look national
 league first.  all numbers in total runs contributed over the season.
 
 	player		offense		defense		total
 
 	sandberg	  44		  32		 76
 	bonds		  67		   3		 70
 	walker		  26		  26		 52
 	justice		  14		  33		 47
 	daulton	 	  44		  ??		 44+?
 	larkin		  36		   4		 40
 	grace		  13		  27		 40
 
 as i see it, these are the legitimate mvp candidates from last season.
 if you deflate sandberg's offense a wee bit for playing in wrigley, you
 get essentially a dead heat.  had bonds been his usual defensive self, it
 wouldn't have been close, but that apparently wasn't the case.  darren
 daulton needs 22 or more defensive runs to make up the offensive difference,
 and i couldn't tell you whether that's easy or impossible.  a good case 
 could be made for any of sandberg, bonds, or daulton as top dude.
 
 my personal vote:  bonds, sandberg, daulton, walker, justice.
 
 
 in the american league:
 
 	player		offense		defense		total
 
 	ventura		  22		  34		 56
 	martinez	  47		  -1		 46
 	b. anderson 	  21		  25		 46
 	thomas		  47		  -5		 42
 	r. henderson	  25		  16		 41
 	raines		  17		  23		 40
 	tettleton	  33		  ??		 33+?
 
 ok, let's see a show of hands: how many of you picked robin ventura as top
 player in the al last year?  i certainly didn't, but i'd have a hard time
 arguing against him at this point.  yes, i know these numbers are only
 approximate, but that's a big gap between him and the #2 guy.  also, those
 of you who thought rickey henderson stank last year are out of your minds.
 
 once again, there's a catcher in the ointment.  if calling a game is as
 important as it might be, 23 runs is easy to make up (or give away).  take
 a guess, folks; i don't think we can do any better than that.
 
 my personal vote (excluding pitchers):
 
 	ventura, tettleton, anderson, martinez, henderson.
 
 i'm a big frank thomas fan, but i have to admit to a bias in favor of
 balanced offensive/defensive contribution, which should have a higher
 leverage in w/l record than an equal shift that is lots of offense with
 negative defense.
 
 for the record:
 
 	carlos baerga		  27		  5		  32
 	roberto alomar		  35		 -2		  33
 
 forget it; it's a wash.
 
 let me also take this opportunity to admit that i was grossly wrong regarding
 don mattingly's defense this past season.  don recovered brilliantly from his
 weak '90 and '91 to end up with
 
 	mattingly		  -1		  17		  16 runs
 
 which is clearly an above-average first baseman.  however, it's still 18 runs
 behind mark mcgwire, 26 runs behind frank thomas, and 7 runs behind john
 olerud.  on the other hand, it's ahead of rafael palmeiro, cecil fielder, and
 every other al first baseman not yet mentioned.
 
 -- 
    david m. tate   (dtate+@pitt.edu) |  greetings, sir, with bat not quick 
      member iie, orsa, tims, sabr    |  hands not soft, eye not discerning
                                      |  and in denver they call you a slugger?
    "the big catullus" galarraga      |  and compare you to my own mattingly!?
 