
 in article <c5ro4h.lww@world.std.com> jle@world.std.com (joe m leonard) writes:
 
 > before folks jump on me, let me ask the net - would the jays
 > have won the al with a good pitcher from aaa in place of morris (given
 > his run support)?  how about an average ml pitcher?  i can't believe
 > that morris' performance in the playoffs and series had a large positive
 > impact on the jays performance ...
 
 i know it's very trendy nowadays to dump on morris, but let's give credit
 where credit is due.
 
 it is doubtful that the blue jays would have won the al east without morris.
 last year, when the team went 13-15 for the month of august, and all the 
 other starters were being shelled, and milwaukee was making a charge,
 morris went 5-1 with a pretty good era (i can't remember exactly).
 also, let's not underestimate the importance his 240+ innings to save 
 the bullpen every fifth day.  if he didn't help us win the al east, forget
 about the pennent and the world series.
 
 his run support was high (5.98 runs) but so was stottlemyer's (5.90 runs)
 and he won only 12 games.  i do remember morris winning an inordinate number of
 6-5 and 8-6 ballgames, but this is to his credit.  he pitched only as good
 as he needed to be.  when he was up 6-1 in a ballgame, he just put it in cruise
 control and threw the ball up there and let the batters "get themseleves out"
 (i hate this expression!).  an inexperienced pitcher would wear himself out 
 trying to make perfect pitches to keep his era down.  but morris, being a 
 veteran pitcher, knows that winning is the only thing that really matters in
 baseball.  by saving himself, he was able to reach back for that little extra
 (i hate this too!) when the game was on the line.
 
 yes morris is crapping out big time this year, but let's not change history
 to suit the present.  
 
 btw, i think he should be put in the bullpen; it would be embarrassing a 
 veteran pitcher which cito would never do, but his era is 17+, how much more
 can he be embarrassed?
 
 > 
 > from where i sit, i'll let others have the excellent players - i'll
 > settle for good enough and the ring :-)
 
 ditto!
 
 > 
 > joe leonard
 > jle@world.std.com
 > 
 
 eddie 
 