
 
     i hope that this comes off as a somewhat unbiased assesment
 of wfan and wip(i go to school in philadelphia, and i listen to
 both stations on a consistant basis.)  now that the fan has mike
 lupica on from 10 to noon, they have a person who can get the 
 big name guests for interviews, and not just of local importance
 he did have dave cheketts and fred wilpon on his show, but he 
 had bob costas and magic johnson on too.  
   now here are my opinions of the two stations competing talent:
 morning show:
   in my opinion, i think imus is much better than bruno, cataldi, 
 and morganti, even though i would feel different if morganti
 had a better crew of people to work with.  to me, wip tries
 to copy imus but make it all sports as a theme.  in terms of
 sports, imus lacks the blanketing of the airwaves, but he
 interjects humor and politics into his show.
 10 am to 12 noon:
   i think chuck cooperstein and lupica are equal in their
 abilities to host a radio show, but i think chuck has the
 advantage over lupica in terms of dealing with the caller
 who is asking about who the local team is going to draft
 in the sixth round.  lupica and the other hosts on fan get
 better interview guests, but i heard the pd of wip say that
 they were not interested in interviews with celebrities unless
 it was a major story.
   i would consider this even because they are two different
 styles of host.
 
 12 noon to 2 pm:
   at this point, i would have to give a big advantage to 
 jody mcdonald over len berman because lenny has only been
 on for a couple of weeks.  i just think jm has the ability
 to transcend the "homer" mentality of the philadelphia fan
 base.  this is most evident when the iggles(philadelphia 
 spelling) play the cowboys because jm is a huge dallas fan.
 where else can you have people call up and predict a 93-0
 score without the egging of the hosts(re:wip morning 'guys')
 i do agree that jm was great on the fan weekend overnight
 and i miss hearing him over the current crop of rotating
 hosts.  i feel that jm is the best sportstalk host on 
 either station by a good margin.  if you are in ny and
 you can't get wip, jm does fill in on the weekends sometimes.
 
 2pm to 4pm:
   this is the time when jm goes up against francesa and 
 russo(fatso and froot loops) and i become the most divided
 in my loyalties.  mike and the dog are very entertaining,
 but they often go an hour or so without calls or even 10
 to 20 minutes without talking about sports.  matd do
 get great guests and that is the basis for their show, so
 it is like the 10 to 12 debate.  another plus is the
 appearances by mike and chris on imus in the morning, which
 are often hilarious.  
 
 4 pm to 7 pm:
   matd go up against fredericks and missanelli.  i like
 mike missanelli but i just can't stomach steve fredericks.  
 i know that sf came from philly originally, but when he
 was at the fan, he was a ny homer as much as he is a philly
 homer now.  i don't listen to wip much after 4 pm unless there
 is a game on that night, but you will see later for the 
 reason.  that is why i give the advantage to fan.
 
 7 pm to midnight:
   s&m are on wip until 8 and then it is the man who makes
 eli that calls matd all the time seem like a novice on
 charges of racism, g cobb.  this man is so grating on my
 nerves that if i listen to him for a few minutes i go
 nuts.(i know that is biased, but listen to his show)
 on fan, there is usually a game on, knicks, rangers, mets
 jets, or st. john's basketball.  if the game is on the
 west coast, then it is usually howie rose.  of course
 i think dead air would be better than g cobb on wip, but
 wip does air sixers and flyers games during the season.
 (if this is the sports station, why did they lose the
 iggles to wysp(home of howard stern in phil.))
 during the summer, it
 is all talk on wip.
 
 
 overall, i would have to give the advantage to wfan, with
 the exception of 10 to 12, and 2 to 4 where it is even, and
 12 to 2 where wip has the advantage.   
 
 
 
             rich
 -- 
   "you've read the hat, now see the movie."
                    -imus in the morning 
   "a blurb? you're a blurb!"
                    -seinfeld
 