
 in article <mzimmersc5sllk.ld9@netcom.com> mzimmers@netcom.com (michael zimmers) writes:
 >in article <20apr93.15151474@vax.clarku.edu> hhenderson@vax.clarku.edu writes:
 >
 >>nflynn@wvnvms.wvnet.edu writes:
 >
 >>i agree with nick.  what's the big deal about long games?  if you want
 >>to watch baseball, there's that much more baseball to watch.  and yes,
 >>baseball includes the space between plays as well as the plays themselves.
 >
 >first, a longer game in no way suggests "more baseball to watch," unless
 >you include watching the grass grow as baseball.  the lengthier games
 >are so because of batters stepping out of the box, pitchers taking
 >longer between pitches and excessive trips to the mound by managers
 >and pitching coaches.
 >
 
 until six or seven years ago i was an enthusiastic fan of nfl football.
 last year i hardly watched a game.  what turned me off were the
 incessant interruptions to the continuity of the game.  a team scores.
 2.5 minutes of commercials.  kickoff.  1.5 minutes of commercials.
 three downs and a punt.  2 minutes of commercials.  aaaaarrrrgh!
 
 earlier in this thread i commented on larussa and the a's, whom i
 believe institutionalize slow play.  i don't mind the cat-and-mouse
 game with rickey on first;  in fact, i rather enjoy it.  similarly
 i would enjoy the battle with listach or lofton or polonia on first.  what
 i object to is when such games are played with karkovice on first,
 or when the game is a blowout.  i don't mind when the pitcher steps off 
 the mound to gather his thoughts in a crucial situation, or when a hitter
 steps out of the box to regain his concentration.  what i object to
 is when hitters and pitchers take such breaks at every opportunity.
 when a game is exciting, these little delays serve as tension builders
 and for me enhance the value of the experience of the game.  when the
 delays happen with regularity, they become nuisances, just like the
 commercial breaks in football.  
 
 i understand the nfl imposed a number of rule changes to "speed up"
 the games, basically putting an onus on the officiating staff to move
 the markers and the ball to the spots faster.  that did not address
 the problem of the continuity of the game.  it may have appeased the
 sponsors and the networks, but i would be amazed if it did anything
 to enhance the experience of the fans.
 
 similary, while some 3-hour baseball games bore me to tears, those are the
 ones where there is no continuity and the players are taking exasperatingly
 long periods to get ready for each pitch.  i doubt if anyone watching
 the braves-giants game cared about gant stepping out.  i doubt if anyone
 watching that game would have found that pause to be anything but an
 opportunity to have their complete attention claimed by the drama that
 was present.  i would be totally opposed to any effort that would
 eliminate that aspect of baseball.
 
 on the other hand, i wish baseball had a commissioner that was powerful
 enough to sit down with alderson/larussa/duncan and explain that they
 are actually hurting the product of baseball by dragging their games 
 out the way that they do.  i sure wouldn't mind a little arm-twisting
 there.
 
 
 
 --	the beastmaster
 
 
 
 
 
 -- 
 mark singer    
 mss@netcom.com
 