 
&nbsp;
Breaking news from Dunblane: Oh no it's raining! We are hoping for the blue skies to come back in time for Andy and Kim's ceremony. 
The weather report says Dunblane is in for a much cloudier day ,with temperatures struggling to get past 7 degrees. 
Fingers crossed it clears! 
Facts that you may not know about Andy Murray's wedding! 
 

*Andy’s hotel Cromlix House Hotel is just three miles from Dunblane Cathedral - but his own private chapel can only squeeze in 28 guests.
*The Cathedral is 1000 years old and was once the seat of the bishops of Dunblane but as late as 1893 was a crumbling roofless ruin.
*Down the road is the Riverside Pub which nestles by the Allan. Poet and then tax inspector Robert Burns stayed there in 1787 where he was inspired to write Highlander’s Lament. 
Weather: The weather does not look promising in Dunblane at the moment as a snow storm sweeps in. Our outfits are soaked! We wonder what bride Kim and groom Andy are making of the wintry snap....

Update from the scene: It's a good morning from a not so sunny Dunblane. The bunting is out, the champagne is on ice at the Tappit Hen pub and even the cathedral bells are ringing. Only thing is it is pelting down with hailstones. Well Andy and Kim did want a white wedding.
Not a lot of people in Cathedral Square at the moment save for some press photographers and TV people.
In rather understated fashion signs on lampposts saying parking suspended for &quot;local event&quot;.
Over at The Tappit you can get champers and strawbery for&nbsp; 4.59 a flute or Jacques Bardelot for 24.99. A wee change from hauf and a hauf.
&nbsp;
Wait the snow is off! Typical Scottsh weather. Hail gone and blue skies back for Andy and Kim's big day.Security teams looking resplendant in yellow now on the scene. All we need is crowds and a bride and groom.
&nbsp;
Lets have a look back on the Murray Sears romance! 
2005 - Andy Murray and Kim Sears meet as teenagers through tennis circles, reportedly at a party for the US Open. Ms Sears's father Nigel is a coach and former head of women's tennis at the Lawn Tennis Association.
February 19 2006 - The couple's romance comes into the open when he celebrates winning his first ATP Tour title at the SAP Open in San Jose in the US by running into the stand to a grinning Ms Sears, hugging and kissing her several times.
November 2009 - The couple split up briefly but are reunited within months.

August 5 2012 - Murray wins an Olympic gold medal, beating rival Roger Federer in straight sets. After winning, he climbs into the players' box to embrace his family, including mother Judy Murray, brother Jamie Murray and Ms Sears.
July 7 2013 - Ms Sears cheers on Murray as he secures victory at Wimbledon.
January 2014 - Murray announces on Twitter that he will be getting married just after Wimbledon but soon reveals that he was joking.
November 26 2014 - Murray's spokesman confirms that the tennis star and Ms Sears are engaged.
Reporter JulieAnne Barnes has spotted the groom! (kind of)
Well the snow is falling in Dunblane (again!) and the courts at Andy's old tennis club are empty. The sun is battling to break through...
But we have had our first glimpse of the star! We thought he might have made a bit more of an effort for his big day! 
 

&nbsp;
Fans are already gathering in Dunblane, more than six hours before the couple are due to arrive. Maggie Andrew (in mask) and Jean Mackay came down from Aberdeen and the strange weather is not dampening their spirits! 
 

&nbsp;
Karina Brevetz and her family have tuned in to our blog all the way from California. Karina said: &quot;Just been reading your live blog on the Murray wedding and loving it! Good job&quot;
Hi guys and thanks for enjoying! 
And while you are here, why not watch this video of Judy Murray talking about what she is wearing! 

It's hailing down right now, but the church bells are ringing out at Dunblane Cathedral. 

Clearly mother of the groom Judy Murray is not impressed with the hailstones either. She tweeted this to her 137,000 followers; 
 
Hailstones. Marvellous.

Our man in the know, has just sent us this video of the church bells ringing out at Dunblane Cathedral. 

We are wondering how groom Andy is feeling right now. Will he be nervous about making his wedding speech? 
We prepared a few little things that we think he will mention... 
Will he gush about his perfect ‘match’, Kim? Will he promise to ‘love’ her for the rest of their lives? Will the ‘ball be in his court’ when it comes to doing the rubbish chores around the house? 
And maybe he will joke about the newly weds making a ‘racket’ later on tonight? 
Sorry we couldn’t resist!
 

THE DRESS! We are desperate to get a glimpse of THE dress, and can't wait to see what style Kim has opted for. 
Eagle-eyed JulieAnne has spotted this Kate Middleton replica dress which is in the window of the Mary's Meals charity shop on the high.The Alexander McQueen inspired frock will set the new owner back 500.It's for sale through Point Nouveau who have supplied Kim with a garter for her wedding today. The blushing bride even sent the company a thankyou note for the gift. 
 

&nbsp;
 

Two lovely white sprays of flowers are outside Dunblane Cathedral all ready for the big event. *whistles 'Here Comes the Bride
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has tweeted Andy Murray to send her best wishes. She must have forgotten to tweet me on my wedding day...
 
Sending best wishes to @andy_murray &amp; Kim Sears for a lovely wedding day and a long &amp; happy life together

&nbsp;
Now back to the all important outfits. Obviously we are all in our Sunday best (wee bit soggy though). But here is some inspiration from designer Stephen Jones on picking the perfect wedding hat. 
And while we are on the subject, did you know that traditionally, wedding guests should wait until the mother-of-the-bride takes her hat off before taking theirs off? More reason to choose comfortable and stylish head wear! 
&nbsp;
 

Not sure about the Prosecco sausages but Dunblane butchers Bennetts and Hills doing a roaring trade in their excellent pies. And, no we're not on commission.
Up the road at the Fourways Roundabout our favourite Dunnlane Indian restaurant is charging a fiver for a day's parking. And again,&nbsp; no we're not on commission.
&nbsp;
TRAVEL: Parking might be a problem if you are heading to Dunblane.You could check train timetables, head for Stirling or Bridge of Allan and take train or bus from there.
Check here to see where parking restrictions are in place. 
 

This is rather exciting - could this be Kim's wedding car?! 
 
Just spotted this on the M80 just outside Dunblane! Kim's wedding car? #andyandkim #murraywedding pic.twitter.com/51ch6dK4M8


