He is known for being a man of few words and this morning Andy Murray proved it once again.
The tennis pro, who is marrying Kim Sears this morning, tried to express how he is feeling with a tweet consisting simply of emojis.
His message featured a sun, umbrella, laughing face with tears, a tie, nails being painted, hair cut, a bride, a church, dancing, a ring, a kiss and many many more before finally finishing with hearts and Zzzz representing sleep.
 

 
As fans pointed out the message was a perfect example of the mixed emotions he will feel on his big day.
Yesterday the 27-year-old looked relatively calm as he arrived at Dunblane Cathedral, where he will be tying the knot. 
The future Mrs Murray was seen following closely behind as they no doubt finalised the final details of the day.
 

Dunblane, Andy's home town, has been gearing up for the wedding all week.
The locals have certainly been getting in the spirit and showing their local hero support as he prepares for his and Kim's wedding.
From cheery messages in shop windows to handmade cards, it's a lovely tribute from residents of the small cathedral town.
 

One local admirer showed off a card from Andy's fianc&eacute;e, thanking them for the gift of a garter ahead of the big day.
The letter read: &quot;We are really excited for our big day in a month's time and are happy to be celebrating our wedding in Dunblane.
&quot;Thank you again for your thoughtfulness and generosity. Best wishes, Kim Sears x&quot;
 

Meanwhile, a local cafe is offering a range of tasty treats themed on the big day.
Fans of the tennis ace can celebrate with 'Andy's Wimbledon bangers', while his wife is honoured with her own dish, 'Kim's big day sausages'.
The menu will also recognise the couple together, with the adorably-named 'sweetheart burgers'
 

Sir Alex Ferguson, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer are among the A-list names that have been snubbed an invite to Andy's wedding to Kim Sears.
Murray is set to tie the knot with bride-to-be Sears at Dunblane Cathedral on Saturday, but the Scotsman has opted against a ceremony littered with big names.
Even his best friends and closest competitors on the court will not be at the event, with Djokovic, Federer and Rafael Nadal all uninvited.
Djokovic replied &quot;not invited&quot; when asked about his attendance at the ceremony on Sunday night. &quot;But I wish him all the best,&quot; he added.


