Electropop geniuses Prides are the headliners at our Young Scot awards on April 30 – and the band admit they were touched just to be asked along, let alone perform.
Stewart Brock, Callum Wiseman and Lewis Gardiner are one of the hottest acts on the planet right now.
They make blisteringly good synth-pop with killer hooks galore and they’re certain to raise the roof of the Usher Hall at the Young Scots.
Stewart told us: “It is really good to be involved in things like the Young Scot Awards.
“I guess as we have had a little bit more of an identity we have been invited to be involved with things like this, like Nordoff Robbins and the Prince’s Trust awards, which is incredible.
 

“It is really inspiring to be a part of an event like the Young Scot Awards because it puts everything in perspective, especially when we are so fortunate with what is going on with us right now.
“Just seeing what people do and hearing their stories is amazing.
“Actually, it is touching to even be asked to have anything to do with this event, it really is. We are looking forward to it and we will do everything we can to make it a fun night for everyone.”
The band shot to instant acclaim when they released a demo of fan favourite Out Of The Blue online a couple of years ago.
They have developed quickly into one of the best live acts on the circuit, their unusual set-up of two singers (Stewart and Callum) playing keys and guitar, backed by brilliant drummer-cum- production genius Lewis, making them look and sound quite unlike anyone else out there.

They were selected to play at the Commonwealth Games closing ceremony, which did their burgeoning international profile no harm at all, and forthcoming single Higher Love – out tomorrow – seems certain to bring them a richly deserved hit.
Stewart said: “We got attention quite early. I am sure there are loads of people who have heard Out Of The Blue and think they are so sick of that tune as they’ve heard it for two years now.
“That was one of the first tracks the three of us had demoed together and we just put it online because that is what you do when you have a new song.
“I think we had three songs at the time so we just did the one we liked the best. We spent a lot of time making sure of it too.
“The pressure is to just start firing out tunes and really chase whatever, the hype or the buzz or that, but we wanted to make sure we ended up with an album that we could sit back and feel really proud of. Hopefully we’ve done that.

“We are excited about putting out Higher Love, it’s one of my favourite tracks of ours and one we have been talking about putting out as a single for a long time so it is nice to have it finally hit the mark.
“We have had a load of support from XFM and Radio 1, loads of plays so it seems to be going well, fingers crossed.”
The really exciting news, though, is that the long-awaited album is done – and we will all get to hear it sooner than you might think.
“The album is finished. It is coming soon,” Stewart added. “We are just trying to nail down a date right now but we are hoping that by the summer, it will be in people’s hands. Fingers crossed it comes around then.
“It feels like we have been working on it forever. Of course, it has been a while, we have been working away for the last two years really on different tracks.
“It feels really nice that finally people will be able to hear it. It’s been a long road but I suppose that is just the way these things work, you’ve got to build a platform first.
“We are excited now and we are really chuffed with it, it’s got to a point where there’s not a track I would swap off it. We are all really happy and can’t wait for people to hear it.'
The band are renowned for their addictively sugary hooks – but Stewart reveals there are a few surprises for anyone expecting an album of glorious pop anthems and nothing else.
There is, it seems, a dark side to the happy sound of Prides in full flow... and we at 7Nights can’t wait to hear it.
Stewart said: “The singles are obviously a good indication of what to expect from the album. They are, of course, all quite big synth-led anthemic tunes so, of course, we were quite aware we didn’t want to have a whole record of that in case we just give people headaches from too much of a good thing.
“There is a good balance on there. There are some tracks that maybe people will be a little bit surprised by.
“We tried to make sure it has an ebb and flow to it. There is always that underlying suspense in all our tracks I think, so we have kind of brought that to the fore on a few of them.
“The whole crossover potential is not something we are particularly conscious of although, of course, it is massively important.
“We are all massive fans of pop music and that is just the kind of tunes we naturally come together and write.
“Of course it is important, especially for the things we want to achieve, to get that kind of support. But we don’t sit down to think, ‘Let’s write a song that people will like on the radio’. It’s more like, ‘Let’s write a big old tune’.
“It’s more about the live side of things for us now, we just try to sit and write a song that, when we get to play it to a crowd, people will get excited and get into it and stuff.”
While such an anticipated debut album would normally be placed in the hands of a world-renowned producer in a flash studio somewhere hot and sunny, Prides have, yet again, decided to do things slightly differently.
It’s all been produced and mostly mixed by Lewis – in the overwhelmingly lavish, hi-tech environment of his kitchen.
Laughing, Stewart said: “It’s all self-produced. It’s all done by Lewis out of his kitchen in Glasgow
“A couple of the tracks were mixed by Spike Stent but the rest were mixed by Lewis too, so there is no one to blame if it goes wrong.
“There is something quite nice about taking ownership of it all like that because at the end of the day if it goes wrong, there is no one else to blame but us.
“It is nice to say, ‘This is us, if no one likes it, ah well’. And we get the credit if it goes well.”
The band are renowned for their eccentric, brilliant videos and the one for Higher Love is among their best.
In it, the band are playing to a bored crowd in a bingo hall – see it now here.
Their videos are the result of ongoing collaborations with supremely talented Scots production outfit Something Something.
Stewart said: “The Something Something guys have done all our videos. We just can’t seem to get away from them.
“It is one of those things that came about quite naturally through mutual friends and things and every time we find ourselves going back to them to ask if they have any ideas for our next video and undoubtedly, every single time, they come back with by far our favourite idea.
“We all have a really good shared sense of humour and I think they really get the kind of band we are. It’s become a bit of a thing now.
“We just really love the way they approach things, it’s from this strange dark place.
“I just really hate generic band videos, I feel like so many of them you watch and have seen it all before and you’re bored.
“We try to come at things a little bit differently and everything of course is a little tongue-in-cheek. We are trying to have fun with it.
“There are so many bands you think, ‘Stop trying to be cool, I don’t believe this because you are clearly trying too hard’.”
It’s going to be a year of big moments for the band, with constant touring planned on the back of a doubtless huge debut album.
 

 
They have their first headline tour of the States in May – they’re unsurprisingly making big waves there – followed by a stripped-back show at The Lighthouse in Glasgow as part of the venue’s Late series on May 29.
And Prides will be the first band to perform at the new T in the Park site at Strathallan in July.
Little wonder, with such an honour lined up, they are refusing to let the current flap about some birds get in their heads.
Stewart said: “We are opening the main stage on the Friday so are the first band at Strathallan, which we are quite proud of.
“I’m sure it’ll all be under control.
“We love T in the Park and I am sure it will all get sorted out, there is still plenty of time before the festival. Nobody panic.”
Here at 7Nights, we’re panicking at the prospect of our most-watched YouTube vid of last year being a one-off.
The Prides boys are known for their Spotify playlists of music they love – but they put together a video of them covering a bunch of their favourite songs as one long, glorious mixtape... and it is very possibly the best thing on the internet.
So while we were talking to Stewart, we had to ask if the band can somehow find the time to make a 2015 mixtape.
Well, we say asked. OK, we begged. We’re not proud.
Stewart said: “Ha, ha, ha – we have kind of dropped ourselves in it with that one.
“Obviously, we will do our best. We are slightly busy but will try to wedge one in, maybe a theme or something.
“We will see what we can do.”
■ Prides headline the Young Scot Awards on April 30 at the Usher Hall, Edinburgh. Tickets are on sale now for &pound;15 (&pound;10 with Young Scot card) from www.youngscotawards.com
■ The band release Higher Love on Monday April 20 – buy it!
