MINISTERS were yesterday accused of employing staff on low-pay, no-security contracts days after making an election pledge to protect workers.
The Scottish Government have been accused of dodging European employment laws by using agency staff in their offices.
Workers on temporary contracts are paid a third less than permanent employees.
Meanwhile a private recruitment firm rakes in hundreds of thousands of pounds from the deal.
Using Paid Between Assignment (PBA) contracts allows the government to ignore EU regulations which give temps the same conditions as permanent employees after 12 weeks.
Ministers’ sanction of the controversial contracts can be revealed as the SNP and Labour face criticism by the head of Scotland’s trade union group for failing to protect workers.
Yesterday, the SNP-led government were branded hypocrites after making a pledge to improve workers’ conditions.
 

Deputy First Minister John Swinney launched the party’s jobs manifesto on Thursday and vowed to scrap controversial zero-hour contracts.
He also promised to increase the minimum wage to &pound;8.70 per hour by 2020 to ensure that “a fair day’s work is rewarded with a fair day’s pay”.
But one woman told the Sunday Mail she worked in a policy unit and was paid &pound;15,000 per year while a full-time staff member got &pound;24,000 for doing the same job.
The 25-year-old graduate spent two years working with the Pertemps Network employment agency.
 

She claims workers are deployed on PBA contracts in key government offices, including St Andrew’s House and Victoria Quay in Edinburgh, Glasgow’s Atlantic Quay and also at Historic Scotland.
She said PBAs were as bad as zero-hour contracts the SNP have promised abolish adding: “There’s no long-term job security.
“We can be sacked by the agency if no further work is forthcoming within four weeks of one job ending and another beginning, so we’re terrified to complain about the unfairness of it all.
“The SNP have made announcements about creating jobs and making sure Scotland is fair to workers but the government have been exploiting us for years by using this loophole when they could have chosen not to.”
 

Last year, the Scottish Government paid around &pound;700,000 to Pertemps, which is headed by Rolls Royce-driving millionaire Tim Watts.
The Warwickshire-based businessman’s firm is the largest recruitment agency in the UK with a turnover of &pound;550million. Watts’ personal fortune is estimated at &pound;35million.
Labour MSP Neil Findlay, Shadow Minister for Fair Work, said the SNP government should “hang their heads in shame” over the issue.
He said: “The SNP claim that they are on the side of working people but all the time they have been exploiting loopholes to get workers on the cheap.
“If they can pay an employment agency &pound;700,000 a year, they can afford to create proper full-time staff jobs and treat workers with dignity and fairness.”
The STUC’s general secretary Grahame Smith added: “If the SNP truly wants to tackle economic insecurity and income inequality, they would be far better concentrating on the real powers we need to create a better society,
“These include powers over minimum wages, employment law, health and safety and trade union freedom– rather than prioritising full fiscal autonomy.”
Smith also criticised Scottish Labour for continuing to oppose the devolution of powers over workplace protection.
 

Last night, the Scottish Government said agency workers would be paid the same wage as permanent staff from tomorrow.
A spokesman added: “We’re moving to pay parity for agency staff which means that, starting this coming week, none of them will be put on PBA contracts.
&quot;This follows our discussions with trade unions.
“We employ temporary staff to give the organisation flexibility to meet immediate business needs.
“This is common business practice across the public and private sectors.”
Public and Commercial Services union officials have welcomed the move on pay parity.
Lynn Henderson, PCS Scottish Secretary, pledged: “We will continue with our campaign for fair treatment for all those who undertake work for the Scottish Government.”
A Pertemps spokesman said: “We’re unable to comment at this stage.”
We revealed last month that 100,000 Scots workers were trapped on zero-hour contracts.
