A SCOTS teenager has died in a quad bike accident at his family’s farm in New Zealand.
Robert McKenzie – known as Robbie – was helping milk cows when his machine rolled over, pinning him in a drain.
The 14-year-old, from Haddington, East Lothian, was found by dad Callum, who used a truck to move the bike off his son.
He then tried to resuscitate Robbie before rushing him to a medical centre, which was shut.
Paramedics reached Robbie within four minutes but were unable to save the youngster.
Robbie and his family emigrated and bought the dairy farm in New Zealand four years ago.
 

Mum Felicity, sister Flora and his brother Eoghan were believed to have been back in Scotland visiting his elder sibling, Donald, when the tragedy happened on April 7.
Close family friend Andrew Ludbrook said it appears the bike flipped over in a drain and Robbie became pinned underneath and may have drowned.
Andrew added: “He was helping milk the cows because he knew it was costing his parents a lot of money to send him to school, so he was doing his best to contribute.
“He went down to get the cows and never came back. Callum found the bike upside down in the drain – he couldn’t get the bike off him.”
Andrew said Robbie was a “wonderful outgoing boy who got on with everyone” and that the family had been left stunned by his death. Robbie’s brother Donald wrote on Facebook: “Thank you for all the support and messages you have all sent. It’s very helpful.”
Robbie was a pupil at Whangarei Boys’ High.
 

Principal David Rogers said: “Robbie was affable, giving, outdoorsy, outgoing. He threw himself into everything he did.”
A celebration of his life was held on Friday. The teen was buried at the farm in Opononi, in the country’s Far North District.
Authorities in New Zealand are investigating the tragedy.
Five people died on quad bikes in New Zealand last year, with many more seriously injured.
WorkSafe New Zealand are now urging farmers to be careful on the powerful machines.
Spokesman Francois Barton said: “As long as quad bike incidents remain a significant part of the farm safety problem, they will remain part of our focus.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

