 A RENDITION expert fears police have been too quick to clear American spooks over torture flights landing in Scotland. 
Police are investigating CIA rendition flights which ferried terror suspects around the world to Guantanamo Bay and secret torture camps.
We told last week how detectives now do not believe detainees were on board when flights touched down in Scotland.
Yesterday Dr Sam Raphael compared the planes to getaway cars used in a bank jobs, and said a crime still took place.
The Sunday Mail also understands Scots detectives have requested a full version of a US Senate report detailing a network of CIA torture prisons.
 The document includes information which nails three flights which touched down in Scotland as being involved in transporting suspects for torture. 
 

Dr Raphael, an academic behind research group the Rendition Project, said: “We’re told there were no detainees on board the planes when they landed in Scotland but that’s missing the point.
“The investigation is into whether those flights – which were on the way to or from rendition operations – have broken Scots law.
“Were the people on the aircraft violating Scottish law by committing acts preparatory to kidnap and torture?
 “And did any government official at Holyrood or Westminster know these acts were taking place? 
“An individual can be guilty of involvement in a bank robbery if they drive the getaway car – they don’t have to be the person holding the gun.”
 We revealed last year that police were focusing on six stopovers – four at Prestwick airport and two at Glasgow. 
The US Senate report – partially declassified in December – provides further information relating to three of them.
It mentions the suspects’ treatment in countries they were transported to.
 

One is Khaled Sheikh Mohammed who was rendered from Afghanistan to Poland for torture in 2003.
Gulfstream Jet N379P – dubbed the Guantanamo Express – stopped at Glasgow Airport in March 2003 on the way back from dropping him off at a CIA torture prison in Poland known as Detention Site Blue.
Dr Raphael said: “What’s been released is a summary about 500 hundreds pages. The full report is some 6000 pages long.
“Facts, dates and locations have been redacted. If Scottish police were able to get the unedited version, they would have access to a lot of potential evidence.”
 Police Scotland’s Major Crime and Terrorism Investigation Unit are leading the inquiry. 
We revealed last week that a two-year probe into the so-called rendition flights has failed to unearth evidence that terror suspects were on planes which landed in Scotland.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

