ACCORDING to the formula, voters should by now just be tuning in to the election messages that the parties have been drumming out for months.
Jim Murphy’s repeated warning that a vote for the SNP makes it more likely that David Cameron will stay on in Downing Street ought to be heard by an electorate busy getting on with their lives.
Murphy’s manifesto launch and messaging yesterday was spot on. He has brought energy and hope to a beleaguered party.
The policies are sound – making Monaco tax exiles such as SNP-supporting millionaire Jim McColl pay for extra NHS nurses makes perfect sense.
But talk to Labour candidates about how the message is going down in constituencies and it is a different story.
 The most experienced campaigners from Labour’s heartlands admit the vote is being fought for street by street in the party’s heartlands. 
 One look at the latest Lord Ashcroft super-polls of Scottish constituencies would appear to confirm that assessment. 
The normal rules of political campaigning do not apply in Scotland just now.

The massive shifts in support are far removed from a general election.
 Voters unburdened by the massive economic risks associated with independence are asserting a preference for patriotic politics and disregarding that the likely impact of that is a Tory government. 
The danger for Murphy is that three weeks out the voters have turned away from Labour’s message.
That could be bad news for the Labour Party but another second Cameron term will be even worse news for working class communities in Scotland.
IN THE face of tragedy, the people of Glasgow again showed how strongly they rally together.
Yesterday the city placed an arm around John and Marian Buckley whose daughter Karen was found dead at a farm on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday night.
The student had only been in Glasgow since February after arriving from Ireland to study at Caledonian University.
After seeing the hundreds who turned out at the vigil in George Square, you’d be forgiven for thinking they were remembering one of their own.
But that’s just the strength of this city which binds together at times of grief.
Hopefully it offers some comfort to Karen’s parents that the city they arrived in four days ago to hunt for their daughter now stands with them in their grief.
CATS are well known for bringing their owners gifts like the odd dead mouse.
But Fiona Campbell from Oban began to question her own style when puss Purdie began coming home with clothes that she’d taken from neighbours.
Let’s hope Fiona’s feline more stylish... 

