AN IRISH faith healer wants to give the Scotland team the edge over his countrymen – by using his mystical powers to help them qualify for Euro 2016.
Niall Gerrard says he’s convinced he can boost Gordon Strachan’s men before they take on Ireland in a crucial group match.
Scotland travel to Dublin’s Croke Park in June. A Scots victory would virtually end Irish hopes in the tournament.
But Niall, 58, says he isn’t worried about being branded a traitor in his homeland and wants to turbo-charge the Scots.
He’s already treated players at a Welsh rugby club where the boss says he wiped out their injury list and helped them to promotion.

Niall said: “I can clear up any injuries the Scotland players might have in the build-up to the game.
“After a couple of sessions with me, they would have increased power and stamina.
“The players won’t just be running faster – they’ll be running for longer.
“This might not go down well in Ireland but people there close themselves off to this sort of thing. It freaks them out.
“So I’ve had to take my skills elsewhere and I’m offering my services to the Scotland team. I’d love to help them.
“It would take a few days to get everything right. I couldn’t just turn up before kick-off.
“I know people are sceptical. But I wouldn’t make a fool of myself by offering to do things I’m not capable of doing.”
 

Dubliner Niall, whose only qualification is a Reiki certificate, was told he had healing powers by a psychic several years ago.
He now lives in London but has travelled all over Europe and the US demonstrating his healing powers.
He also set up a clinic in Bulgaria where he’s appeared on TV and he’s also posted video clips of himself in action on YouTube.
Publicity shots for his business show him juggling a mysterious ball of light.
Niall spent a season working with Wrexham Rugby Club in 2012.
Director of rugby Rob Thomas said: “At first, everyone was sceptical but we thought we’d see what he can do.
“We had players with all sorts of injuries but he helped them recover.
“I had a cruciate injury and he certainly alleviated my problems.
“We got promotion the year Niall was with us. Our players seemed to respond to whatever it is he can do.”
One of Niall’s clients, Chicago lawyer Edward Mogul, who had difficulty walking following a stroke, added: “I’ve seen him do things I didn’t think were possible.”

An SFA spokesman said: “We’re grateful for Niall’s offer of help.
“But we’re sure the boost a positive result in Dublin would give our Euro 2016 prospects will be sufficient motivation to continue our improving performances in this qualifying group.”
Niall last week demonstrated his skills to powerlifters at Dumbarton’s Marinecraft Gym.
Gym president Darren McCarroll said: “Half the lifters in the gym are injured so were willing to give anything a chance.
“I’ve had pain in my shoulder for years but Niall managed to get rid of it.
“One of the other boys said he had done more for him than painkillers.
“Everyone was totally amazed.”
Test your knowledge with our sports quiz:

