A FORMER nurse has become the first person in Scotland to trial a new bionic leg designed to help patients get back on their feet after illness.
Robert Flynn had an operation for a second brain tumour two years ago.
He was left with mobility problems and normally walks with a stick.
But he has been able to walk unaided for the first time in years after trying out the new device at a Hamilton clinic.
 The 52-year-old from Paisley said he is trying to increase his independence since having surgery for a potentially deadly brian tumour. 
He said: “I last had surgery two years ago and I was left with severe left-sided weakness. I used an anti-gravity treadmill first of all and started using the bionic leg around 10 weeks ago. I can already feel the benefit. My aim is to get some more of my independence back.”
The AlterG Bionic leg is a battery-powered device which senses the person’s intent to move and responds accordingly.
The makers say patients who are learning to walk again will use it to enhance recovery.
 Robert, a former paediatric nurse, had cancer at just 12 and again at 15. It was during his treatment that he made the  decision to become a nurse. 
He said: “The other staff told me I would be good with patients. It was a time when jobs were difficult to come by. I applied through the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, with a reference from one of the consultants who was treating me and I got my first job.”
 He was at Glasgow’s Southern General Hospital before being moved to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children at Yorkhill. 
In 1999, Robert moved abroad to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, but took ill again with a brain bleed.
He said: “It was almost as if I was drunk. I was struggling with balance. My condition was deteriorating. I had a pinhole bleed and as each day passed, I lost a little more balance and I had visual disturbance.”
Robert recovered and completed his contract. He was enjoying a period of good health until 2006 when a brain tumour was discovered. He fought back to health until he was struck down again five years later by another tumour.
He said: “When things started to go wrong this time, I was checked a bit quicker.
“I had to have more surgery and the consultant warned that things might not go as well as before.”
 

Between November 2012 and January 2013, he had to learn how to walk properly again.
He has right-sided weakness and struggles with movement.
He said: “After my second surgery, I was struggling to even get out of bed. Initially, it was taking four members of the team to get me standing on my feet. I used to get really angry. I was just doing four steps.
“Sometimes, I would find the song I’m Still Standing and play it as loud as I could.”
 Gradually, Robert’s mobility improved but he was determined to keep motivated and try to recover as much as was  possible. 
He was referred to Core Physio clinic where he first started using an anti-gravity treadmill to build up strength before turning to the bionic leg.
He said: “The difference has been great. My personal goals are to be able to gain more independence, even if it means I still walk with a stick.
 “The nearer I can go to the lowest level of support I need, the better. There is still a lot of work to do and some days are  better than others but I have great support from the team. 
“I go twice a week. I get some funding for it. For me, it is like going to the gym. I used to love the gym and I see it as a form or exercise and a way to socialise.”
The device is also aimed at patients with spinal cord injuries, MS, Parkinson’s or knee surgery.
The makers say it can significantly help rehabilitation for mobility-impaired patients, such as those recovering from stroke, injury, orthopaedic surgery or traumatic brain injury.
 How it works: 
The AlterG Bionic Leg has tech-nology developed by NASA.
The system uses differential air pressure to reduce the stress on the body’s joints.
It is worn during physiotherapy sessions to enhance training routines such as sit-to-stand exercises and stair climbing.
When a patient begins to stand, the sensors detect the weight shift and responds by either bending or extending the leg to help.
 Test your knowledge with our news quiz: 

