
 
    since i've been seeing all kinds of complaints regarding gateways
 lately on here, i thought i post my recent pleasant experiences. my
 machine (4dx2-66v) this past friday. this was two weeks to the day from
 when i called the order in. 
 
    upon unboxing it i found everything to be in perfect order. all the 
 peripherals i ordered were properly installed (jumbo-250 & cd-rom). i
 was very impressed with the quantity and quality of the gateway 
 documentation. all software came with the original disks and manuals.
 the gateway manual itself is in a nice 3-ring binder. the ati gup came
 with build59 drivers. all other software i specified (microsoft office)
 was properly installed. the machine came right up out of the box and 
 has been performing flawlessly. it's been on all weekend and it hardly
 even reaches room temperature. i think the big roomy tower case has a 
 lot to do with it. 
 
    it's up and running dos 6.0 with no problems. i've also read about
 some people having problems with high speed serial communications. 
 i used the dos 6.0 interlink program which lets me link to my old
 computer via a serial port at 115.2k baud. it then "maps" the other
 machines two hard disks as my disks f & g. you can "cd" to these
 drives and either run programs or copy files. it's almost like a
 peer-peer lan except you can also *run* programs on the other machine.
 it's not a two way street. the other machine is the server and this
 machine is the client. so thats where it seems to differ from the 
 peer to peer stuff. for a bundled dos utility its very impressive. 
 
   my jumbo-250 took about 11 minutes to back up 117mb of data. i also
 by-passed any potential gateway monitor problems by taking the $430
 credit and applying it towards a nec 4fg. i love this monitor!
 
   so, i'm glad there is some good news gateway stories and i'm glad it
 was me. (now if it just keeps working). :-)
 
 
 					john
 
 
 -- 
 john gayman, wa3wbu 
 uucp: uunet!wa3wbu!john
 packet: wa3wbu @ wb3eah 
 