
 in article <1pifisinnhsr@dns1.nmsu.edu> jdiers@dante.nmsu.edu (diers) writes:
 >
 >i own a stealth 24 card from diamond.  when using the 640x480x16.7mil win 3.1
 >driver the card and driver work but are not very fast.  all of the other
 >windows drivers have a number of bugs.  shadows remain when windows are
 >erased and text boxes are often unreadable.  all attempts to get help from
 >diamond have failed.  i have called the tech support and never been able
 >to get past the hold line (a toll call) in a reasonable time (ie 10min).
 >leaving voice mail has not helped either.  the bbs is a joke! it always
 >has too many people on to download anything.  you cannot even get a file
 >listing (it considers that a download!).  i have faxed the tech support group.
 >all this with no reponse.
 >
 >the bottom line is if you are looking for a fast card and want to use it
 >for windows, do not get a diamond product.  try another vendor, i wish i had.
 
 while others here may have had better experiences, i, too, share the
 sentiments posted above.  though i have the original stealth/vram,
 it is only "relatively" recent that the windows drivers for this card
 have evolved to a point of decent performance.  note that there are
 still a couple of modes i cannot use (ie. will not) due to shadowing,
 mis-drawn check boxes, etc.  i believe the version i have is 2.01.
 if there's a more recent release, i'd appreciate if someone would
 drop me a note to let me know -- i haven't been able to get on their
 bbs lately to check again.  naturally, diamond doesn't even bother
 notifying me of fixes/releases.
 
 diamond was helpful when i finally reached the "right" person in curing
 some of my windows' problems due to an address conflict.  the conflicting
 addresses (2e0, 2e8) were omitted in at least my version of the
 diamond/vram manual.  i hope it has been corrected by now.  the tech rep
 explained that all s3-based boards use these addresses.  i have not
 confirmed the validity of that statement.
 
 when i upgrade my motherboard in the near future (hopefully with some
 form of local bus), i'll seek a video solution from someone other than
 diamond.
 
 lance hartmann (lance%hartmann.austin.ibm.com@ibmpa.awdpa.ibm.com)
                yes, that is a '%' (percent sign) in my network address.
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 all statements, comments, opinions, etc. herein reflect those of the author
 and shall not be misconstrued as those of ibm or anyone else for that matter.
 