
 in article 489@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu, husak@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (stephen r. husak ) writes:
 >please reply via e-mail since this is job related: 
 >
 >i have a colorado jumbo back-up system at one of my places of 
 >employment and it has eaten two tapes by winding the tape off the spool.
 >
 >is there an easy fix or is the tape drive fried? does it simply need 
 >cleaning?
 >
 >any and all comments will be appreciated!
 >
 >stephen husak
 >
 >-- 
 >"what am i trying to do, what am i trying to say, i'm not trying to tell you 
 > anything you didn't know when you woke up today..."
 >				- depeche mode "nothing" music for the masses
 >-= stephen r. husak - husak@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu - univerisity of illinois
 
 does it do it to all tapes?  were the two tapes that it unwound of the same
 type from the same batch?  the reason i ask is that i bought some generic tapes
 that did this and found that the tape markers were not fully punched out and
 had closed the little marker hole.  it was only on a few tapes of a set.
 
 did you open up the tape cartridge and put the tape back on the reels?
 
 if you have not yet, open it up by removing the two screws on the bottom of
 the tape cartridge and snap the plastic shell away from the metal base.  
 as you are pulling the tape through the assembly try not to touch any more 
 than you have to.  as you are doing it, look for a couple of little holes in 
 the tape.  these are the marker holes which let the tape drive know when it is 
 at the end of the tape.  the holes are spaced a couple of inches apart.  my best
 guess is that the drive finds the first marker and then stops on the second
 marker?  
 
 anyhow, if the tape has the holes, then check to see if the mirror on the tape
 is clean.  the function of the mirror is to detect the marker holes.  the
 tape drive shines a light at the mirror and has a pickup in the area where
 the reflection would come out.  when the hole goes by, the pickup detects the 
 light that was allowed to pass and it knows when to stop.  if the mirror is dirty
 or out of alighment (unlikely since it is made into the case) you might have
 a problem detecting the end of the tape.
 
 if the tape drive does it on all tapes and the tapes all look good, then either
 the pickup or the led of the sensor system has failed or is dirty.  if you open
 the drive door you will see the sensor assembly to the left of the r/w head
 assembly.  if it looks clean and nothing is in its way, then the drive may
 need to be serviced.  it is possible that the led is burned out or the sensor
 is out. 
 
 if it is still in warranty, you might be able to send it back to cms for
 repair.
 
 
 ---
 scott hiles
 whiles@relay.nswc.navy.mil
 
 standard disclaimer:
   the opinions expressed are those of my own and do not necessarily 
   reflect those of the dod or the navy.  i accept full responsibility.
 
 