
 facts:
 =====
 - a netware server 286a was roughly moved to a new location and left powered
 down for three months.
 - from memory it has an 80 mb hard drive.
 - manuals and original disks are for sft netware 286 level ii v2.0a
 - when powered up, the cmos was wiped. a technician examined it and 
 pronounced the disk drive unusable.
 
 my investigations indicate that drive c is a type 27 (1024 cylinders, 9 sides).
 when cmos set this way, compsurf runs happily, with 13 bad blocks.
 
 i use prepare to hotfix the one internal drive.
 
 install will proceed "successfully", but when i try to boot the server, it
 reports that the software is not serialised for this hardware.
 
 internal examination indicates that the keycard is present, and there is one
 disk drive (or at least one large single unit). 
 
 attempts to configure a second drive in cmos result in drive not ready
 errors.
 
 questions:
 =========
 the software is netware 286 level ii and i can see burnt on to the screen
 sft netware 286 level ii v2.0a. however, to configure netware for level ii
 (mirrored or duplexed disks) requires a second disk, yes? 
 
 so how is the novell server 286a normally configured?
 
 1. can i install sft netware 286 level ii v2.0a as level i, or is this what
 is causing my serialisation error?
 2. is the novell server 286a normally equipped with two hard drives, one of
 which has failed?
 3. would this mean i can not install the network software because it will not
 be serialised for this hardware with a failed drive?
 4. what else can cause a serialisation error?
 5. what happens if the keycard fails?
 6. am i doing something wrong? can someone knowledgeable offer some comments
 and guides.
 
 thanks for your time.
 
 apology:
 =======
 i appreciate that i have posted this request somewhat widely. as i'm
 dealing with somewhat archaic hardware and software i'm hoping that by casting
 my net further, i'm more likely to capture someone who has met this system
 before. i believe i can justify the groups to which i am posting. please
 feel free to correct me if you feel this is an inappropriate place to post
 this.
 
 
 -- 
 	this posting is definitive. bljeghbe'chugh vaj blhegh.
   wayne mcdougall :: keeper of the list of shows better than star trek(tm) ::
             ask me about the auckland festival of missions, 18-25 april, 1993
 i always change my mind when new evidence is available. what method do you use?
 
 