
 kevin kimmell - computer science/german undergrad (ke_kimmell@vax.cns.muskingum.edu) wrote:
 : 
 : 	i am interrested in the extrodinarily simple concept of the null modem
 : cable. (actually i have no idea, so don't count that last statement.)  what i'm
 : asking is what pins does it use (or what are it's specifications?)  i just want
 : to solder one myself instead of buying one.  i don't even know what port is
 : used.
 : 
 : help me please (at ke_kimmell@vax.cns.muskingum.edu)
 : 
 : kevin
 : 
 : p.s.  i'm intending to use the cable for pc-to-pc transfers (via lap-link or
 : telix.  ideas and info gladly accepted.)
 
 i do not have specific knowledge of lap-link or telix, but my recommendation
 for any package is to follow each one's instructions for making the null-
 modem cable.  the reason is that each one may be different since there isn't
 really a standard for pc to pc communications.  the following is a tutorial
 i wrote up that will give you an understanding about rs-232 and null modems,
 but you should still check your software!
 
 i will eplain a couple of details of rs-232.  rs-232 is
 a commumications specification for communicating between a computer and a
 modem.  actually it can be between any end system and any communications
 hardware.  the terminology used is data terminal equipment (dte) and data
 communications equipment (dce).  rs-232 spells out the voltage levels, the
 connector type, the pinouts, and the signal protocols.  the connector is
 a "db-25" but ibm has set an alternative "standard" of db-9.  the primary
 signals are transmit data (td), recieve data (rd), and signal ground (sg).
 there are other signals that provide control between the dte and the dce.
 for example, the dte announces that it is powered up and ready to participate
 in communications via the data terminal ready (dtr) signal.  dtr is an
 output on the dte and an input on the dce.  similarly, the dce announces that
 it is ready to participate in communications via the data set ready (dsr)
 signal.  dsr is an input on the dte and an output on the dce.  ok that's
 five signals; there are only four more of interest.  the request to send (rts)
 signal is an output from the dte (and an input to the dce) that is used
 to ask the dce permission to send data.  if the dce agrees, it sends an ok
 via the clear to send (cts) signal.  (for completeness, the cts is an input
 to the dte and an output from the dce).  the other two signals (of interest)
 are ring indicator (ri) and data carrier detect (dcd).  these are both inputs
 to the dte and outputs from the dce.  ri is just what you would expect -
 a signal to the dte saying that someone is attempting to establish a connection
 to the dce.  this is rather specific to the modem / telephone line setup.
 dcd is a way for the dce to announce that the "connection" has been established
 i.e. the local dce is talking to some remote dce.  there - that's it.  oh
 there are many other rs-232 signals defined, but they are obsolete.  i have
 explained the nine signals that are on a pc.  the pinouts are as follows:
 
 name    db-9     db-25
  sg       5        7
  td       3        2
  rd       2        3
 dtr       4       20
 dsr       6        6
 dcd       1        8
 rts       7        4
 cts       8        5
  ri       9       22
 
 now to address your problem at hand.  when you connect a pc to a pc (a dte
 to a dte), there is no dce pair in the middle and therefore the rs-232
 signal definitions don't work out quite right.  there is no dce to assert
 the cts, dsr, dcd, or ri.  so the common thing to do is to not use these
 signals at all - and also forget about the dtr and rts outputs as well.  if
 this is done you simply make a null modem (a cable) that passes through sg,
 and crosses td and rd (i.e. pin 2 of one end connects to pin 3 at the other
 end, etc).  the problem with this solution is that a pc that wants to send
 data has no way of knowing if the other pc is ready.  it would have to just
 send the data and hope it got through.  therefore a better null modem would
 include the dtr/dsr pair crossed.  a particular point a confusion is in the
 software area.  just because you run the wires does not mean that the soft-
 ware will use them.  if you are using the built-in bios to control the
 serial port, then the bios dictates what wires you need and how they are to
 be used.  but if you have a comm. package such as brooklyn bridge, or lap-
 link or telix, then those packages dictate the cabling requirements.  the
 only thing you can guess reliably is the sg, td, and rd.  the dtr/dsr is also
 fairly common.  there is one more issue that needs to be addressed here.  and
 that is flow control.  in the rs-232 scenerio, the dce's are responsible for
 flow control and it is assumed that the dce couldn't possible over-run the
 dte.  by this i mean that as long as the dte has its dtr line asserted, the
 dce will send data - without requesting permission first.  note the contrast
 to the other direction of data flow: the dte must request permission by
 asserting the rts line and it must wait for the cts signal before it can
 send.  and now in the dte to dte scenerio, the question is do you need flow
 control?  the answser is usually.  but how?  for non-binary communications,
 one common technique is xon - xoff which is implemented in software - no
 wires are dedicated to flow control; the td and rd carry the xon and xoff
 commands.  this type of flow control can be used in addition to hardware
 flow control, but the problem is that you can't send binary data because
 your data might include the xon or xoff codes and cause erroneous conrol
 signals.  (a work around is to have the software insert and extract "escape"
 codes, but the hardware flow control is prefered).  the problem with hard-
 ware flow control is that there is no standard.  there are lots of ways to
 do it and i bet they have all been tried.  one cornerstone of all the methods
 is to use the rts/cts for one direction.  but beyond that anything is fair
 game.  again, you must look to you comm package for cabling requirements.
 but i bet you'll find that one cable (if wired properly) could work with
 all of the packages as long as they are of the same vintage.  by the way,
 i am familiar with one package that uses rts/cts and dtr/dsr for flow control
 the rts is request to send and the dtr is ready to recieve, the cts is the
 clear to send and the dsr is the request to recieve.  this does not mean a
 differnt cable - it is just software.  the clincher to all of this cabling
 stuff is that it is common to have the uart directly controlled by the cts
 signal which means that the cts must be present even if you are not support-
 ing it in software.  for these cases you will find cables that short the
 rts to the cts at the same end (or perhaps the dtr to the cts).  other
 possible shorting might be done just because the software expects certain
 signals that you don't have (or don't feel like providing because it would
 mean additional wires).  specifically i am talking about the dsr.  shorting
 the dtr to the dsr is not a good idea in general but you may find cables like
 this.  it is a bad idea because it defeats the whole purpose.  one more
 "gotcha" signal is the dcd.  some software (including the pc bios) expects to
 see the dcd before it will work.  this signal sometimes gets shorted with the
 dtr.  but my favorite null modem has the rts and cts shorted at each end, but
 the rts is also connected through to the other end and connected to dcd.  and
 of course the dtr/dsr are crossed as are the td/rd and of course the sg must
 pass through.  this null modem works with most software.  the flow control,
 if any, can use the rts/dcd with the dtr/dsr.  if your comm. package does not
 specify the cable required for pc to pc connection, then i suggest you use
 this one.
 
     td  ------  rd
     rd  ------  td
     dtr ------ dsr
     dsr ------ dtr
     dcd ------ rts-\
   /-rts ------ dcd |
   \-cts        cts-/
 
 
 gordon lang
 
 