
 c a l l   f o r   v o t e
 -------------------------
  
 this is the official call for a vote on the creation of 3 newsgroups
 for those engaged or interested in all areas relating to the
 publishing of any sort of cdrom material. please repost this cfv to any
 newsgroup, listserver or reflector that you think might have a
 group interested in this subject in order to reach as broad an
 audience as possible. every vote counts, so make sure you register
 yours if you want these groups to be created.
 
  
 proposed groups
 ---------------
 comp.publish.cdrom.hardware
 comp.publish.cdrom.software
 comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia
  
 status
 ------
 unmoderated.
  
 
 voting period
 -------------
 from: the appearance of this posting
 to:   23:59 est, 21 may 1993
 
 how to vote
 -----------
 all votes must be emailed to: manaster@yu1.yu.edu
 or sent as a reply to the originator of this cfv (manaster@yu1.yu.edu). 
 
 -to vote, simply copy the example below and delete either the "yes"
 or the "no" before each group to register your vote for or against
 the creation of that group. a line containing "yes/no" as in the
 example below, will be considered an abstention with respect to
 that particular group. note that each group will have its own
 separate vote count and that you may split your vote for the groups
 or abstain as you will. please provide your name and e-mail address
 as shown in the example below.
 
 		email your  vote following this
 		example.....
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 subject: re: vote on comp.publish.cdrom.*
 	
 i  vote "yes/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.software"
 i  vote "yes/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.hardware"
 i  vote "yes/no" for the creation of "comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia"
 
 	[last name], [first name] [(e-mail address)]
 	.
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 voting rules
 ------------
 -only one vote per user (two different people cannot vote under the
  same user name).
 -any votes which are received before or after the voting period
  will be discarded.
 -anyone who wants to change their previous vote may do so by voting
  again.  they must indicate that they have previously voted and are
  changing their mind in a footnote.  a changed vote will discard your
  previous vote.
 -email messages sent to the above addresses must constitute unambiguous
  and unconditional votes for/against newsgroup creation as proposed.
  conditional votes will not be accepted.
 -only votes emailed to the above addresses will be counted; mailed
  replies to this posting will be discarded.
 -in the event that more than one vote is placed by an individual, only
  the first vote will be counted unless it was changed as above.
 -no information will be supplied as to how people are voting until the
  final acknowledgment is made at the end, at which time the full vote
  will be made public.
 
 ambiguous votes
 ---------------
 ambiguous votes -- those who do not follow the specified format, or 
 do not make clear the voter's intent, will, where possible,  be 
 returned to their senders for clarification.  ambiguous votes which 
 cannot be returned to their senders or for which no clarification is 
 provided will be identified in the final vote tally.
 
 every vote counts........feel free to flood my mail!!!
 
 
 rationale
 ---------
 the rationale for this proposal is a need for those interested or
 involved in the publishing of cdrom materials to have a forum for
 the discussion relating to their needs. at the moment the main fora
 for such discussion are in alt.cd-rom and comp.multimedia neither
 of which have publishing as their focus. some lists serve the
 general cdrom community with focuses on library, government and
 network usage, and until several weeks ago none were devoted 
 to publishing (cdpub has just been setup). in any case a list is not,
 and ought not, be a replacement for regular usenet newsgroups.
  
 the reason for the division into three groups is a natural
 partition of interest between the hardware and software topics,
 and between the two main focal points of software, i.e. fulltext
 and multimedia publishing. topics such as cdrom xa, cdi, cd-r, 
 photo cd and other related formats would be included as well. 
 topics related to cdrom publishing that are neither clearly
 hardware or software related such as books, copyright issues and
 other legal matters, packaging, distribution, could be included in
 the purvue of comp.publish.cdrom.software, as would any other
 nonhardware or multimedia topic that relates in some way to cdrom
 publishing, in any format, and is appropriate to the internet.
  
 the main focus of comp.publish.cdrom.software would be topics such as
 index and retrieval software, premastering software, cdrom
 simulation software, hypertext, sgml, scanning and imaging
 software, data capture software, data clean up, compression,
 encryption etc as relates to publishing cdroms.
  
 the main focus of comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia would be software that
 aids in the multimedia authoring and publishing process - audio and
 video.
  
 the main focus of comp.publish.cdrom.hardware would be hardware that
 relates to cdrom publishing, as well as hardware for data capture,
 such as all sorts of scanners and data capture hardware, as well as
 information that publishers need to know about the hardware that
 the intended enduser will utilize (the hardware that will
 eventually play the published cdrom) including networks for cdrom.
  
 notes
 -----
 these groups are not to be used for topics such as reviews or
 questions relating to already published cdroms or reviews or
 questions relating to general purpose cdrom drives and the like.
 requests for help in installing a cdrom drive and other general
 topics should be directed to other fora. questions about cdroms
 mounted on lans should be directed to bit.listserv.cdromlan.
  
 charter
 -------
  
 proposed charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.software
  
 the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.software, will be a newsgroup for 
 discussion of the following example topics, but not limited to them:
  
 	index and retrieval software
  
 	authoring software
  
 	scanning and imaging software
  
 	ocr and ocr cleanup
  
 	hypertext
  
 	sgml
  
 	premastering and simulation (cdrom) software
  
 	copyright and legal issues related to publishing cdroms
  
 	other nonhardware topics related to cdrom publishing
  
 proposed charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.hardware
  
 the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.hardware, will be a newsgroup for 
 discussion of the following example topics, but not limited to them:
  
 	cd-r equipment
  
 	data capture hardware
  
 	scanners
  
 	video and audio capture hardware
  
 	networking hardware
  
 	midi hardware
  
 	photo cd hardware
  
 	publishing systems
  
 	cdi and dvi hardware
  
 	compression and encryption hardware
  
 	keyboarding
  
 	other hardware publishing topics
  
 proposed charter -- comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia
  
 the usenet newsgroup, comp.publish.cdrom.multimedia will be a newsgroup for 
 discussion of the following example topics, but not limited to them:
  
 	multimedia authoring software
  
 	imaging software
  
 	audio and midi software
  
 	color control software
  
 	video editing software
  
 	audio editing software
  
 	multimedia utilities useful for publishers
  
 	integration of text, image, audio and video
  
 	compression and encryption of multimedia
  
 	multimedia copyright and related legal issues
  
 	multimedia databases and hypertext
  
 	other multimedia publishing topics
 -- 
 	henry manaster          *     email: manaster@yu1.yu.edu
 	brooklyn, ny            *
 	disclaimer: the above is not necessarily my opinion nor that 
 				of anyone else :-)  ????!
 