
 for sale:
 
 at&t dataport internal 14.4k fax/modem
 
 the modem is an internal at/(e)isa 8-bit card (just a little longer
 than a half-card).  it has v.32bis for 14.4kbps data / 9600 bps fax,
 v.42, v.42bis, and mnp5 for error-correction and data compression, so
 you can get error-free links up to 57,600 bps on a conventional phone
 line.  they will "fall back" to any speed (down to 1200bps) and even
 disable compression and error-correction if necessary in order to
 connect with slower and older modems.
 
 it has a 16550 buffered uart for better compatibility with
 multi-tasking operating systems (windows, os/2, unix, etc).
 
 they use a patented technology called optical line interface (oli)
 which reduces noise generated by the modem to assure the fastest and
 cleanest connection possible.
 
 these modems come with a lifetime warranty and free lifetime tech
 support (and the call is free, too) from at&t.
 
 they also include the lovely and talented quicklink ii for dos and the
 new quicklink ii for windows communications and fax software which
 will let you conveniently sent faxes from any dos or windows
 application just by printing.  the windows version will send faxes of
 any font and can include graphics, etc.  the dos version can fax
 graphics and a limited set of fonts (i believe that there are 5 or so,
 as well as any hp laser ii resident fonts).
 
 i'm asking $210.00 for this modem (plus utah tax).  this is at or
 below the prices of any other (reputable) manufacturer of an
 equivalent modem (including zoom, us robotics, etc).  and, it is
 backed by a company that will never go away.
 
 this price will include delivery if you live within 20 miles of
 downtown slc.  i can also arrange shipping, or you can stop by my home
 to pick it up.  (if you're concerned about installing an internal
 modem, let me know and we can discuss an arrangement for including
 installation.)
 
 if you're interested, please let me know.  this is an excellent modem
 at an excellent price (they normally list for ~$500 and retail for
 about ~$300).  i installed one of these last week and it is very nice.
 
 if you have questions about this, at&t has an info number at 
 (800) 554-4996, or you can email me and i will attemp to answer them.
 
 the modem will go to the highest bidder i get within the next week.
 
 thanks.  
 pete
 
 