A COUPLE killed when their plane crashed into a hillside had been flying home to spend Easter with family.
The bodies of David Rous and his GP wife Margaret Ann were found after their light aircraft came down in a remote area in bad weather.
The couple lived in Newport-on-Tay in Fife and they had been flying from Dundee airport to Margaret Ann’s old home on Tiree in the Hebrides to see relatives.
Margaret Ann's sister Johann paid an emotional tribute online, describing her as her &quot;absolute rock&quot; and describing the tragedy as the &quot;hardest day of my life&quot;.
Johann used to live in Dundee with her sister before returning to Tiree.
Yesterday, she thanked friends and family for their support.
Referencing the Black Eyed Peas' song Meet Me Halfway, she wrote on Facebook: &quot;Big sister, it's our song, I am going to sing this to you everyday for the rest of my life! You were my absolute rock, and I promise to meet you halfway one day! Today has been the hardest day of my life, I love you Minnie xxxx&quot;
“Thank you all for the heartfelt messages, phone calls and visits.
“We appreciate your thoughts at this heartbreaking time.”
Yesterday, islanders spoke of their shock at the loss of the 37-year-old doctor and her husband, 28.
Tiree doctor John Holliday said: “I had known Margaret Ann since the 1980s. She captivated everyone who knew her. She was absolutely gorgeous in every way.
“She became a much-loved GP in Dundee and I have no doubt that she was a wonderful doctor with her charm and great empathy.
“She immediately touched the hearts of everyone who came into contact with her.”
John, who met David when he visited Tiree, added: “He was a really nice man and a very talented structural engineer with a bright professional career ahead of him.
“Together they made a fine couple. We can only imagine what the family must be suffering.
“A cloud has fallen over Tiree but the island community will come together as it always does at times like this.”
Margaret Ann’s widowed mum Catriona Maclean and sister Johann both live on Tiree. John Macaskill, vice convener of the island’s community council, added: “It’s absolutely tragic what has happened. It’s a major blow for the community.
 

“Family and friends, as is done in Tiree, will gather round to support Mrs Maclean in her grief.”
Neighbour Angus Mackinnon said: “They are very close friends of ours and we are all deeply shocked and saddened by what has happened.
“We are doing everything we can to support them.”
Another Tiree resident added: “Margaret Ann and her husband were coming up to stay with her family for the Easter weekend.
“She went to school here but left the island quite a long time ago.”
The PA-28 Piper Cherokee plane came down on a hillside at Bein Nan Lus, south of Oban, in Argyll on Saturday afternoon.
An air, land and sea search for the aircraft had been launched after it dropped off the radar at 1.50pm.
The couple’s bodies were found on the north side of Glen Kinglas, above Loch Etive, six hours later.
Yesterday, efforts were continuing to recover the bodies from the crash site.
Neighbours of Margaret Ann and David in Newport-on-Tay also paid tribute to them. One said: “They were very well-liked around here.
“They held a few parties to get to know the neighbours and were really nice.
 

“Margaret was a local GP and David spent a fair bit of time working away from home.
“He had a lot of contacts in the building trade and spent a lot of time doing up their house. They own another flat in the village that they rent out.
“They were such lovely, down-to-earth people.”
Margaret Ann and David married at Balbirnie House Hotel in Fife in July 2013 and they spent their honeymoon in Venice.
Iain MacKinnon, station officer of Oban’s volunteer coastguard team, was part of the group who went searching for the couple.
He said: “At the loch surface, it was almost perfect visibility. But in terms of using the rescue helicopters, they were very restricted because the cloud was down to 100metres.
 

“It was way down on the hill, particularly the area where the crash site is – that was over 700metres.
“They took the mountain rescue guys as high as they possibly could and dropped them on the hill to walk up from there. The problem with a plane crash is a plane is going quite fast. If you are going at 60mph on the road, a plane will go at 100mph – it’s a fair impact at that kind of speed.”
Aviation expert David Howitt, who retired recently after managing the small airfield at Glenforsa on Mull for 50 years, said the weather had been bad at the time of the crash.
He said: “I have been taking weather readings here for 50 years and on Saturday the weather was very dubious. There was very poor visibility.”
David said the Cherokee aircraft the couple were flying was renowned as one of the most reliable light aircraft and was often used for training purposes.
He added: “The sympathy of the aviation fraternity goes out to the family.”
As forensic experts were airlifted to the scene of the crash yesterday, police said inquiries were continuing into what caused the accident.
Chief Inspector Fergus Byrne added: “Specialist officers are at the scene and every effort is being made to recover the victims, investigate the circumstances, then remove the wreckage of the plane.
“However, the area is very remote and the crash site extensive and it will take a considerable amount of time to complete our work.”
Try our quick news quiz below:

