THE founder of a Scottish church is to face jury trial accused of inducing a 12 year girl to sex-massage his body with oils.
Walter Masocha is also alleged to have sexually assaulted an adult woman and engaged in sexual activity with a 14-year-old girl.
Masocha, described on court papers as the minister of the Church of Agape in Stirling, is said to have committed the offences at the Church, at his home in Sauchieburn on the outskirts of the city, and at the plush Crieff Hydro Hotel in Perthshire.
The incidents are said to have occurred over a two-year period between January 2012 and January 2014.
The 51-year-old cleric faces four charges on indictment.
One alleges that at the Church and at the Hydro on various occasions between Jan 1st and May 16th 2012 he intentionally caused the 12 year old girl &quot;to participate in a sexual activity in that he did induce her to massage his body while in a state of undress using massage oils&quot;.
Another alleges that on various occasions between May 17, 2012, and July 31, 2013, at the church and the hotel he caused the same girl, then aged 12 and 13, but no longer alleged to be in a state of undress, to participate in similar sexual activity, massaging him with oils.
A third charge claims that on various occasions between April 01, 2012, and March 30, 2013, at the Church of Agape, he sexually assaulted an adult woman, repeatedly putting his arms around her, pressing his body against hers, touching her intimately, and kissing her on the face and neck.
The fourth charge alleges that on various occasions between January 01, 2013, and January 27, 2014, at Church of Agape he engaged in sexual activity with or towards with another girl, aged 14 to 15, by repeatedly kissing her on the lips, touching her body and touching and and pinching her buttocks.
Falkirk Sheriff Court was packed with his supporters, many of them female, as Masocha, wearing a dark blue velvet pinstripe suit, denied the four charges.
Defence advocate Shelagh McCall said it was a &quot;complex case &quot;.
She added: &quot;There is no doubt that this will proceed to trial.&quot;
Sheriff Kenneth McGowan continued the case for one week for a further procedural hearing.
Masocha, of Cosyneuk House, Sauchieburn, Stirling, will face trial iduring a jury sitting starting in mid-April.
After today's hearing there were ugly scenes outside the court as some 15 supporters of the minister jostled with photographers in a bid to stop them taking pictures.
They threw a coat over the head of the accused before bustling him into a waiting car.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

