WHEN Nicola Sturgeon told her party conference the SNP would demand the abolition of the House of Lords, she got the biggest cheer of the day.
But a silent cheer rang out around the country too.
This is a popular policy.
Many politicians have promised to call last orders on their lordships over the years.
All have either lost their nerve or succumbed to their inner knee-bending tendencies.
Sturgeon certainly has the nerve and bows to no one.
The SNP have always opposed the House of Lords and have turned down all offers of ermine. We have no wish to join the British establishment.
But we were never in a position to end this affront to democracy – until now.
A minority Labour government dependent on SNP support would be forced to give the lords and ladies their jotters for good.
A bastion of privilege would be demolished.

 
It’s one illustration of how SNP influence could deliver the radical change so many traditional Labour voters expect. Labour governments, time and again, have failed to deliver that change.
Tony Blair and Gordon Brown gave gongs to supporters and retired colleagues.
Far from diminishing the gold-encrusted upper house, successive Westminster governments have allowed it to grow like fungus.
The UK Parliament, taking Commons and Lords together, is second only to the National People’s Congress in China, which presides over a population of 1.35billion.
The Lords here are no more democratic than the Chinese Congress. They get &pound;300 just for turning up – and it’s completely tax free.
A smaller proportion these days are to the manor born. The aristocrats have been joined by unrepresentative appointees.
It is now nine years since Angus MacNeil, the working crofter SNP MP for the Western Isles, sparked the great “cash for peerages” police investigation.
Blair was interviewed, as were dozens more witnesses. Then – surprise surprise – the English Crown Prosecution Service said there was not enough evidence to press charges.
 

 
 
But everyone knows there’s a link. In a lecture earlier this year Lord David Steel – former Liberal leader and presiding officer of the Scottish Parliament – said of party leaders who get to nominate peers: “Those doing nothing for the party except writing large cheques somehow manage to catch their eye.”
And this month, Oxford University published the meticulous research paper “Is There a Market for Peerages? Can Donations Buy You a British Peerage? A Study in the Link Between Party Political Funding and Peerage Nominations, 2005-14”.
It looked at all Lords nominations and donors since 2005 and then took out the type of people who you might expect to get a peerage anyway, such as former MPs or ex-council leaders.
That left another 92 lords who between them had donated &pound;33.83million to the Labour, Tory and Lib Dem parties.
The statistical chance of these individuals being chosen at random was, “equivalent to entering the National Lottery and winning the jackpot five times in a row”, according to the research paper.
The House of Lords is not a lottery – it’s a racket.
And if the SNP can close it down, Nicola Sturgeon will be doing the whole of Britain a favour.

Try our quick news quiz below:

