A mum-of-two who says she was glassed in a nightclub was told to fork out &pound;10 if she wanted to see the footage of her attack.
Debbie Strachan, 31, was left scarred for life and in need of 30 stitches around her left eye after the alleged assault in Dundee club, Liquid.
Her injuries were so severe she underwent reconstructive surgery less than 24 hours later.
While she claims she was attacked, nightclub officials say a review of CCTV footage instead show her falling against a banister and stairs.
Debbie asked to view the footage herself and yesterday morning received an email reply from customer services of the Luminar Group – which runs the venue – stating she would need to send a &pound;10 cheque to cover the “search fee”.
It then noted that if third parties were identifiable the group would not be able to provide a copy of the footage.
Following enquiries by our sister paper the Stirling Observer, a spokeswoman for the club said the payment had been waived.
More news from Stirling
 

Debbie, from Stirling, said her two young daughters, Skye, 8, and Mirren, three, were in hysterics when they saw the injuries to her face.
She said: “I told the youngest one a bad man had hurt mummy but for Skye it took a lot longer. Skye wouldn’t let me go anywhere near her. ”
The alleged attack took place while Debbie, an administration student at Forth Valley College, was on a night out with her husband, Robert, 26, her brother-in-law, Kevin, and his wife, and friends.
They stopped in a few pubs on their way to Liquid in South Ward Road on Saturday, March 28. It was just after midnight when a group of men confronted Kevin and friend, Francis, and Debbie tried to intervene.
She said: “I was trying to pull one of them off and ended up being smashed in the face. I remember falling on to my hands and knees. There was a horrible ringing in my ears. Next thing I came to and I was being carried through the club by a bouncer.”
An ambulance arrived and Debbie says as she was being taken in a member of staff from the nightclub told her she had just fallen over.
She said: “I just remember telling everyone a guy had punched me in the face. My sister-in-law was crying saying I looked like something from a horror film as my face was covered in blood.
“The back of my eye socket has been bruised, that’s how hard this guy hit me. The club say I fell but the first doctor said he pulled glass out of my face.”
The attack left her scared to leave her home in Braehead although she says her work colleagues at Zak’s Kitchen in The Peak and bosses at Forth Valley College have been “amazing” in their support.
Debbie feels the incident hasn’t been handled well by police or the nightclub and posted a message on Facebook about the attack, showing her injuries, which was shared more than 2000 times.
She added: “I feel really emotional about it all. I just want justice to be done.”
A spokeswoman for the nightclub said a review of CCTV footage showed “no evidence” of a bottle or glass being involved in the incident.
She continued: “From the footage, it appears that she approached a group of individuals involved in an altercation and subsequently fell and collided with the bannister and stairs.”
A Police Scotland spokeswoman confirmed that officers were making enquiries.
 
