A prostitute asked to direct detectives to the countryside track where Iain Packer used to take her led them to a spot just yards from where Emma Caldwell’s body was found.
The 34-year-old woman, who did not know where Emma’s remains were discovered, took police to the isolated road surrounded by dense woods in February 2006 but became distressed as they approached the location.
She had identified Packer from photographs and told police he was one of her clients.
She agreed to show detectives the remote spot where he took her after picking her up in Glasgow.
The Sunday Mail has spoken to former partners, friends, neighbours and family of Packer, some of whom were also interviewed by detectives investigating Emma’s murder.
 

One said: “The girl said they had been on the M74 for ages and they initially missed the turn-off.
“They got back on the right road but she became upset as they got closer and she started remembering the place.
“She was crying and shaking when she saw the pine trees but eventually asked them to stop next to a silver gate.
“She didn’t know but they were almost exactly opposite the place Emma’s body was found.
“She went down there a few times with him. That seemed to be his thing. Maybe the drive was part of the thrill.
“He took Emma there and took a number of other girls there too.”
Another prostitute told detectives that she thought Packer was besotted with Emma to the extent that he would try to scare off other clients.
A source said: “She basically said that, for a time, this guy was always looking for Emma as if none of the other girls interested him.
“She told officers that he had no respect for the women he picked up and treated them with disdain.”
 

Twice-married Packer has also had a number of long-term partners.
His first wife told police he would ask her to go for a drive then cruise around Glasgow’s red-light district.
They had an occasionally stormy relationship but she did not believe the warnings from friends and family that he was using prostitutes.
A friend of the woman said: “She says she is still traumatised by their marriage to this day.
“She was questioned by detectives about Iain and Emma Caldwell, as were members of her family, but says the last thing she wants to do is talk about him.”
Packer’s second wife left him after she caught him with a prostitute in their home after arriving back early from a night out.
The woman declined to speak publicly about Packer but a friend said: “She wants nothing to do with him.” Another friend, Elayne McAllister, said she and her husband met Packer and his wife when they lived near each other in East Kilbride.
She said: “Two detectives came round to interview us about Emma Caldwell because Iain had been using my husband’s identity in sex clubs and saunas and with hookers.
“I remember them saying to us to keep watching the news. They thought we would be seeing him on it.” Until recently, Packer lived in the family home in the east end of Glasgow.
He declined to respond to messages left for him there by the Sunday Mail.
His dad Murray said: “He doesn’t want to speak to you. That’s it finished.
“He has already been cleared by the police. He’s got a new life, he’s away from here and he does not want to speak to anybody about this.”
Police: We turn over every stone to find killer
On the day after Emma’s body was found in May 2005, the officer leading the investigation, Detective Superintendent Willie Johnston, promised to leave no stone unturned in the search for her killer.
He said: “Inquiries into Emma’s death are at a very early stage, although the incident room has been running since April 19following her disappearance.
“We will be turning over every stone that we find to try to find the killer, or killers, of Emma.
“Forensic officers are carrying out a detailed search of the area and a team of officers has been dedicated to this investigation.
“We can say that she was addicted. The family are aware of that and, despite their best efforts, they could not draw her away from the power of that addiction.
“I have spent some time speaking to the parents of Emma, who are naturally devastated at their loss.
“Today is also the seventh anniversary of her sister Karen’s death, which makes it particularly difficult to bear.”
Every step in what was to become one of the longest-running, most complex murder investigations in Scotland should have been logged and directed by the Home Office Large Major Enquiry System.
HOLMES, staffed by trained and experienced personnel, was launched after the failure of West Yorkshire Police to apprehend, much earlier than his eventual arrest, Peter Sutcliffe.
He was convicted of murdering 13 women in and around Leeds and Bradford between 1975 and 1980.
Sutcliffe had been interviewed nine times during the investigation before being apprehended by a beat officer who stopped him by chance.
The first task of the HOLMES staff was to input, upload and review all the inquiries carried out while Emma had beencategorised missing.
Their base was Aikenhead Road police station in Glasgow, near the hostel where Emma had lived.
Reinforcements were also requested early on, with officers from the then Serious Crime Squad and local divisions seconded to the inquiry, some for weeks or months and others for years.
At its height, more than 100 officers and support staff worked on the investigation.
Police Scotland: We haven't given up the hunt 
Police Scotland insisted the investigation into Emma Caldwell’s murder remains open and is regularly reviewed.
But they refused to discuss former suspect Iain Packer and why he was ruled out of their investigation eight years ago.
A spokesman said they could not be drawn on specific individuals.
But Detective Superintendent Bobby Hendren, of Homicide Governance and Review, said: “Her murder is still very much an openinvestigation which, as with other unsolved cases, is under constant review.
“We are committed to keep working on her case until we bring her killer or killers to justice. We’d welcome any new information that could assist us with that aim.
“Anyone with information can contact police via the non-emergency number 101 or can call Crimestoppers in confidence on 0800 555 111.”
