Dog lover Maggie Anderson is on a one-woman mission to save strays in Singapore –by flying them back to Scotland.
The 37-year-old charity worker has rehomed six pets with Scots families after bringing them with her when she visits friends and family in Edinburgh.
And three more are due to arrive next month.
Maggie, who moved to the Asian island state four years ago, flies with the pets as excess luggage to Paris at a cost of &pound;100 per dog.
She then drives to Scotland through the Channel Tunnel to keep costs down.
Maggie said: “Seeing how much these dogs come on makes it all worthwhile.
“It makes me so happy when I see them being looked after.
 

“Some of them had been badly mistreated and had behavioural problems but they are so much happier in Scotland.
“They get to run around in the hills and play and be loved.
“The people who adopt these dogs are just amazing.
“They have never met the dogs but they agree to take them on.
“They have such big hearts. I can’t thank them enough.”
Maggie moved to Singapore four years ago and was shocked by the number of dogs left to fend for themselves on the streets. She got involved with the charity Action for Singapore Dogs and Project Dorm Six, a group of volunteers who neuter street dogs and try to rehome them.
Maggie and husband Grant adopted Thor – a puppy being held at a government pound and scheduled to be put down aged just eight weeks. They brought him back to Edinburgh on a trip home, giving Maggie the idea of re-homing other unwanted dogs.
Thor now lives in Scotland with Maggie’s parents.
She has also found homes for rescue mutt Rufus, now settled at Innerleithen, near Peebles, and Jackie, one of a pack of 70 dogs found at a Singapore factory but now living on a farm in Dunbar, East Lothian.
Maggie lines up Scots families to take the dogs before she leaves Singapore and ensures each dog is fully vaccinated.
Earlier this year she brought over three puppies.
Isla, who was living in a graveyard, now lives with a loving family in Lasswade, Midlothian.
Street dog Poppy was taken in by one of Maggie’s friends and Raffles, who was recovering after being attacked by another dog, now lives in Arbroath.
Maggie said: “There are between 8000 and 10,000 stray street dogs in Singapore.
“The rules about having a dog are strict – no dogs over 15kgs or a certain height to the shoulder are allowed in public housing, where 80 per cent of people live.
“This eliminates pretty much every street dog, so we have to rely on people living in private housing and expats.
“These dogs are not safe in Singapore. They don’t have a great life here.
“When I saw the problem I just had to help.
“If we don’t help, who will?”
Try your hand at our news quiz

