POLICE have confirmed that they have found the man seen talking to Karen Buckley outside The Sanctuary nightclub in Glasgow in the early hours of Sunday morning.
He is helping with their inquiries.
Meanwhile, the family of Karen, who disappeared after telling friends she was going to the toilet in the nightclub, have flown to Scotland as police step up their search for her.
Karen, 24, from Cork in the Republic of Ireland, was last seen on CCTV in the early hours of Sunday morning, talking to a man outside the Sanctuary in Dumbarton Road, Glasgow.
She arrived at the club with friends at around 11.45pm on Saturday and at around 1am told them she was going to the toilet but failed to return and did not take her jacket.
 

She was then seen on CCTV outside talking to a man and then walking westwards along Dumbarton Road away from the city centre towards Church Street.
Friends of the Glasgow Caledonian University student raised the alarm on Sunday, saying it was &quot;very out of character&quot; for her not to return home.
Her parents have flown over from Ireland as they also believe her behaviour is unusual.
Police are keen to speak to the man seen speaking to Ms Buckley, and appealed for any other information.
 

Inspector Gavin Smith said: &quot;Friends reported Karen missing on Sunday 12 April after feeling her behaviour to not return home was very out of character.
&quot;Her friends say she would always contact them by text or phone to let them know where she was and she doesn't appear to have contacted anyone.
&quot;We are interested in speaking to anyone who may have seen Karen in the early hours of Sunday morning in the west end of Glasgow in order to help with our inquiries to locate her.
&quot;Karen had been drinking alcohol with her friends but they say she was not drunk and are very worried about her. Her parents have also flown over from Ireland as they believe this behaviour is very unusual and not like Karen at all.
&quot;I would urge anyone who may have seen Karen at all on Saturday night into Sunday morning to get in touch with police on 101 with any information at all.&quot;

Police confirmed that officers were conducting door-to-door questioning around the west end yesterday, with extra personnel in the area to support the investigation.
Miss Buckley is described as white and around 5ft to 5ft 2in. She has brown eyes and dark hair which had long black curly extensions in it.
When last seen she was wearing a black jumpsuit with red high-heeled shoes and was carrying a black handbag. She speaks with an Irish accent.
She lives with three other student friends in a flat in Hill Street, Garnethill, Glasgow, and earlier on Saturday evening had drinks with friends in the flat before going to the nightclub.
Try your hand at our news quiz

