A SCOTS gangster stabbed an alleged Algerian drugs dealer after luring him to a Tenerife flat, a co-defendant has claimed.
Brian Rawlings, 69, implicated Gordon Horsfall on the first day of their attempted murder trial.
Neither man showed up for the start of the criminal hearing at a court in the Tenerife capital Santa Cruz.
Fugitive Horsfall, who shot a bouncer and injured a female reveller outside a Glasgow nightclub in 2004, is thought to be in hiding in Thailand.
Rawlings alleges a serious medical condition has prevented him travelling to Spain.
 

He had previously denied allegations a man had been attacked in his flat and claimed not to know the other three Brits, including 44-year-old Scot expat Craig Anderson, who were in the dock for the start of the trial on Monday.
But in a letter he wrote which was read out at the start of the hearing, he named Horsfall as the man who knifed Abdelhafid Khamed.
Most of the defence lawyers protested a state prosecutor's application to read out the letter in open court, but judge Joaquin Astor ruled against them.
Rawlings said in the letter: &quot;Horsi opened the door and two men came in.&quot;
Claiming the Algerian stab victim and a Moroccan pal walked in carrying a green bag with two and a half kilos of cannabis resin inside, he added: &quot;Horsi stabbed the first of the north Africans that entered the house.&quot;
He also said in the letter he failed to tell the truth in his initial statement shortly after the December 2006 stabbing because Horsfall threatened him and his daughter and he felt &quot;very afraid.&quot;
A police officer who was not named told the hearing that another defendant, Paul Gray, had told detectives his girlfriend had received a call from Craig Anderson asking him to retrieve the drugs from a bag of dog food inside Rawlings' apartment.
Police watching the flat arrested Gray as he left the property with the cannabis resin.
Horsfall has been described as a hitman hired by expat criminals on Tenerife to settle scores with north African drugs dealers they were involved in a turf war with.
He is said to have knifed Khamed after luring him and his Moroccan pal to Rawlings' rented flat with a lucrative cannabis deal.
 Khamed, who collapsed in the street after fleeing the scene of the stabbing, claimed after he had gone to the flat to buy and not sell drugs.  Cesar Vera, lawyer for another of the defendants Darrell Pope, said there was no proof linking his client to an attempted murder and illegal drugs sale despite the discovery of a fake passport and driving licence in his name at Rawlings' flat. 
Pope is facing up to 17 years in prison if convicted of attempted murder, drugs trafficking and falsifying documents.
Horsfall, 35, of Glasgow's Thornliebank, is facing 16 years in jail and Horsfall 15 years - 11 years on the attempted murder charge and four years on the drugs trafficking charge.
Spanish authorities tried to have him extradited shortly after the December 2006 stabbing but he was already serving a five-year prison sentence for a shotgun attack outside Blanket nightclub in Sauchiehall Street in July 2004.
Horsfall phoned an accomplice to deliver the gun and a bulletproof vest after a confrontation with two men inside the club.
 He opened fire at random, injuring a woman passer-by who was only said from serious injury because the shot bounced off her necklace.  He then shot doorman Anthony Nyangweso through the hand before fleeing in a taxi. 
Miguel Serrano, Tenerife's chief prosecutor for major drug cases, has said of the Tenerife stabbing: &quot;The victim would almost certainly have died if he had not been spotted bleeding in the street and taken to hospital for emergency surgery.
&quot;If Horsfall tries to travel between countries, he will be flagged as wanted and held on the spot.&quot;
The trial, which was supposed to start last October but was postponed following a previous no-show by Horsfall and Rawlings, continues.
 Try your hand at our news quiz 

