THE inquiry into the devastating Glasgow bin lorry tragedy began officially yesterday.
It was revealed that it will focus on three main areas of evidence – and is scheduled to begin full hearings in July.
But sources close to the inquiry say it is unlikely to hit that date because of the sheer weight of evidence involved.
It hopes to answer the questions which the relatives of the six people killed – and the 10 injured – have been asking since tragedy struck on December 22.
Solicitor General Lesley Thomson, who will present evidence for the Crown, told Glasgow Sheriff Court yesterday there were three main areas of inquiry.
One is the fitness of driver Harry Clarke, 58, who was unconscious at the wheel of the lorry as it ran through the city centre.
The others are the suitability of the vehicle and of the route, particularly in relation to the time of day and the time of year.
Sheriff Principal Craig Scott said it would be “very unfortunate” for the inquiry not to proceed on July 22.
It is expected to last four weeks.
The sheriff said: “Were for whatever reason the inquiry to be put off, it is difficult to envisage at this stage when it might be accommodated.”

But sources told the Record that given the amount of documents to be seen by all parties, there is “no way” the inquiry will start on July 22.
Jack Sweeney, 68, his wife Lorraine, 69, and their 18-year-old granddaughter Erin McQuade, from Dumbarton, were killed in the crash.
The family were represented in court yesterday, as were the relatives of the others killed – Stephenie Tait, 29, Jacqueline Morton, 51. and Gillian Ewing, 52.
Advocate Emma Toner, for the Sweeneys’ family, said they wanted to “participate fully” in the inquiry.
The next preliminary hearing was set for May 18.
BIN lorry driver Harry Clarke was diagnosed with a heart condition – but only after the tragedy.
And there was no prior warning before the driver, who had to undergo regular medicals as part of his job, collapsed at the wheel.
Harry spoke of his anguish in an interview with the  in February.
He said that he thinks about each victim “every minute of every day”.
He added: ”I wish I could remember what happened but I can’t. I was unconscious. I was never aware of anything being wrong with my heart until that day.”
Before joining Glasgow City Council as a bin lorry driver, Harry worked for a number of years as a bus driver.
As an HGV driver, his licence was conditional on regular and thorough medical examinations.
He said: “I’ve worked all my life. I just lived a normal life.”
In the wake of the tragedy, the relatives of those who died and the survivors of the crash said they did not blame the driver and sent messages of support to him as he recovered in hospital.

Harry was named as the driver for the first time by The Herald newspaper in January.
The Record knew his identity for several weeks before that but chose not to reveal it or approach him or his family.
Harry, whose condition is said to be improving, remains on sick leave from his job. He was treated for two weeks at Glasgow Royal Infirmary before being released.
Following the incident, a blood sample was taken from him and he tested negative for drink-driving.
He had passed a full medical in 2012.
A source at the Unite union, who are helping him, said: ”He’s under the legal auspices of the union. Our driver was involved in a terrible accident.”
THE 32-tonne vehicle is to be moved to a spot near the court so it can be inspected by all parties prior to and during the FAI.
Issues likely to be probed are why other crew members were unable to do anything when Harry Clarke collapsed. It is understood there was no “stop” button.
One crew member suffered facial injuries and a second hurt his hip as they tried to rouse the driver.
The pair shouted to him that the lorry was killing people and shook him.

But their efforts were hampered by a metal rail inside the cab between the driver and other crew, who sit on a raised bench in the rear.
Both crew members hurt in the tragedy sustained their injuries as they were jostled by the erratic movement of the vehicle.
It swerved inexplicably before proceeding on its fatal journey of around 400 metres, ending up in George Square.
Examination of on-board monitoring equipment showed that it travelled at just over 20mph as the tragedy unfolded.
The lorry would have travelled for roughly 40 seconds.
Did the lorry's route contribute to the tragedy?
Crown officials have already taken video footage – shot at the same height as the lorry – along the route it travelled on the fateful day.
The footage will provide the sheriff with a driver’s-eye view of the tragic journey.
The lorry travelled west along Ingram Street before making a right turn to head north on to Queen Street.
It is at this point, it is thought, that the lorry driver was no longer in control of his vehicle.
The lorry headed north, but on the pavement, hitting its first victims on Queen Street.
It careered on to George Square before becoming embedded in a building next to Queen Street railway station.
 

But the Solicitor General has stated that it is not just the city centre route that the Crown wishes to probe.
Other factors will be the time of day that it was in the area – early afternoon – and also the time of year.
In other words, could it have been foreseen that on the Monday before Christmas, Glasgow would have seen one of its busiest shopping days of the year?
And what was the wisdom or otherwise of having a vehicle of that nature on city centre streets at that precise time of day, on that precise day?
Could the work of the bin lorry have been conducted at a different, much less busy time of day?
These are the questions to which the fatal accident inquiry will endeavour to find answers.
Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

