A packed-out Kilmarnock cafe dished up 600 portions of chips on Sunday in the name of charity.
The special one-off open day at the Golden Arrow fish and chicken bar in The Foregate raised an incredible &pound;2300 for Save Babies UK which supports families affected by Krabbe disease, an extremely rare, often fatal, degenerative disorder of the nervous system.
The disease occurs in about one in 100,000 births, and sadly, wee Joey Forte from Hurlford was diagnosed with Krabbe disease at Glasgow’s Yorkhill Hospital in September, 2014.
Joey is 16 months old, and may not live until his second birthday.
His mum Linzi and dad Tony, of Craigie Road, Hurlford, are related to Mario and Jannette Forte who own the Golden Arrow. And that’s why the popular chippie was the venue for the weekend’s fantastic fundraiser.
Said Mario, Tony’s uncle: “The place has never seen anything like it. We were supposed to open at noon, but people started queueing 20 minutes before that.
“We went through 10 x 50lb sacks of potatoes and fried two stone of fish.
“And the support we had from other local retailers and members of the public was out of this world.
“We can’t thank people enough.”
Added Joey’s mum Linzi: “Tony, Joey and myself would like to say a massive thank you to everyone who came and donated to the Save Babies UK charity, and huge thanks also to Jannette and Mario for hosting the amazing event. We are truly touched by everyone’s generosity.”
Donations of homebaking poured in for Sunday’s fundraiser too, and a raffle, again with numerous prizes donated, and special Save Babies’ wristbands, boosted the total even more.
When added to the &pound;750-plus raised earlier in the week, it means the chippy charity day’s final tally truly is golden – more than &pound;3000!
And Lorraine Bolland, of the Brunch Box in Galston, said this week she would add to that magnificent total. Lorraine said she would give 10p from the sale of every filled roll the Polwarth Street takeaway sells this week to the charity.
In most cases, signs and symptoms of Krabbe disease develop in babies around six months of age, and the disease usually results in death by the age of two.
The disease is caused by a mutation of a gene inherited from both parents, but Krabbe disease only arises when both parents pass on a faulty GALC gene.
There’s no cure for the disease, and treatment focuses on supportive care.
