A DISABLED grandmother was left to live on just 1p a week in welfare benefits.
Former carer Pauline Wood worked full-time until around four years  ago, when she was forced to quit her job after developing severe arthritis in her legs.
But the grandmother-of-three  became suicidal when a benefits investigation cut her payments to 52p per year.
Pauline was forced to survive on pennies for six months before she was cleared of any wrong-doing.
The investigation centred on the sale of her house. But her turmoil  was compounded when a Tory-led review into her illness found her fit to work.
The 57-year-old blames the  welfare reforms introduced by David Cameron’s Government for her descent into poverty.
She said: “For months, I did without electricity and heating. I didn’t tell anyone. I didn’t confide in anyone.
“I was on 2p a fortnight in  unemployment benefit. That was to keep my council tax and housing benefit going. In order to get that, I had to get 2p a fortnight – that’s what the Government paid me.”
The pitiful sum was paid to  Aberdeen City Council, who continued to meet Pauline’s rent and council  tax payments.
She lived off hand-outs from a food bank and the generosity of her friends and family.
 

Pauline blames her problems on the Government’s decision to  overhaul the benefits system, forcing disabled claimants to take part in humiliating reviews to see if they  were fit for work.
She said: “When I saw the letter seeing how little I was to receive, I broke down in tears. I just couldn’t believe the way I was treated.
“I got a letter from the benefits office because they wanted to see  me. I was paying all my bills and everything.
“They produced bank statements from previous years and asked what I had done with my money.
“I tried to remember off-hand but they wanted me to go back for the last four years and produce each and every receipt.
“They told me there and then my benefit would be stopped. I was getting nothing at all pending their investigation.
“Depression was really setting in badly.”
Pauline couldn’t afford to buy food or pay for electricity and gas. She didn’t appeal against a Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) ruling that deemed her fit to work.
That meant she was scraping by on 1p a week in unemployment benefit before her case was reviewed and her disability payments restored.
Pauline hit rock-bottom and made the heartbreaking decision to take her own life.
She said: “In August last year, I was so depressed the doctor had me on  anti-depressants.
“On a Thursday night, I had had enough. I said, ‘That’s it, I can’t  take any more of this. I don’t want to be here’.
“I planned what I was doing the next morning – I wanted to end  my life.
“I phoned the social work  department that morning in a final effort to get electricity and gas.
“I was in such a state, they  panicked and phoned through to welfare rights.”
A member of the welfare rights team visited Pauline – and saved  her life.
She said: “If it wasn’t for him, I wouldn’t be here. My plan was to walk to the beach and into the sea.”
Pauline has managed to get her life back on track, thanks to those around her and the Trussell Trust charity.
She added: “The Trussell Trust were  tremendous. They continued my parcels and said it was shocking what I was going through. I felt like I was in one deep hole and I couldn’t get out of it.
“All I could do was burst into tears. I did without for months and months before I got anything from anyone.
“So many people were so kind to me. I survived on the generosity of others and the Trussell Trust.”
Since being cleared in the fraud investigation and getting her life back on track, Pauline has become  Christian and been baptised.
She added: “The Trussell Trust and the Church have turned my life around.
“I think differently now. I don’t get so upset so quickly.
“I am in control of my emotions a bit better than I could ever be before. It’s a different life all together and a lot of it is down to the first time I set foot in the food bank.”
Pauline now helps at the Aberdeen North Food Bank in any way her disability allows, usually by distributing advice to people who find themselves in difficult situations.
She said: “I come in here and give people advice when I can.
“My aim now is to give back. I’ve been doing it now a couple of months.
“The Trussell Trust have played a very big part.
“I’m now helping them and it’s an amazing feeling. It really is. I can’t believe how far back I was and where I am now.”
A spokeswoman for the  Department of Work and Pensions said Pauline had been deemed fit  for work in last June. She was  reassessed in February and her payments were restored.
She added: “Ms Wood was informed that she had been found fit for work in June 2014.
“The decision was made following a thorough assessment and after consideration of all supporting medical evidence provided by her.
“Ms Wood did not ask for a  Mandatory Reconsideration, which would have allowed her to present fresh evidence in support of her claim or lodge a formal appeal.”
The spokeswoman added:  “Ms Wood made a new claim for Employment Support Allowance some months later and is now in receipt of benefits.”
