JUDY Murray was among more than 700 people who turned out yesterday to pay tribute to former  photographer Gordon Jack.
The mum of Wimbledon winner Andy spoke of a “great snapper” and, like everyone who knew Gordon, a “fun” person.
Judy was joined by friends, family and colleagues of Gordon as well as Cabinet Secretary Fiona Hyslop at St Michael’s Parish Church in Linlithgow.
They remembered a “funny, cheeky” as well as professional photographer, sorely missed by all, including his young daughter Emily who read a touching poem.
 

Gordon, 47, collapsed while documenting the build-up to Andy’s nuptials with Kim Sears in Dunblane on April 10 and tragically died the following day as the wedding took place.
Speaking before yesterday’s service, Judy Murray said: “I was lucky enough to work with Gordon on a few shoots and he was a great snapper but he was also great fun to be around.
“The thing I will always remember about him was him coming to cover me and Anton Du Beke when we were training for strictly in Edinburgh and Gilly his wife came because she was a big Strictly fan.
“I remember Anton twirling her around the dance floor and I have to say she was a lot better than I.”
Former colleague and life-long friend Stuart Nicol shared his memory of Gordon’s first ever shift at the .
Read our tribute to Gordon penned by  journalist Annie Brown
 

He said: “I was reminded of Gordon’s very first freelance shift at the Record. He had done a job in Bathgate rushed into the  office, breathless, and said ‘I’m Gordon Jack, here are my films, here are my captions, I have to go - my wife’s in labour.’
“Those actions signified Gordon’s priorities in life - work hard, take great pictures, get the job done but when push comes to shove, the family comes first.”
He added: “Everyone who ever met Gordy, Jacko, the Jackal or simply Gordon, no matter how well you knew him, you were his best friend.
“I’ve never met anyone who had a bad word to say about Gordon, which is a true testament to the man.
“Everyone that met him always left feeling that little bit better about himself and life in general.
“He had the most infectious smile that would simply light up your day.
“His glass was always half full and never ever half empty - he was the perfect best friend.”
Gordon’s wife Gilly and their three children have received letters from Nicola Sturgeon and Camilla Parker Bowles as well as a racket from tennis ace Andy Murray.
 

Church-goers attended in bright colours at the request of the family and Frank Sinatra’s Fly Me To the Moon was played during the service.
Brother-in-law Chris Smith said: “Gordon had the ability to see the beauty in everything before anyone else could.
“Although officially in law, as far as we’re concerned gordon has always been and always will be our big brother.
“He gave friendship freely and unconditionally and applied to the same generosity to his whisky cabinet except perhaps with the exception of my dad Les.”
Chris’s brother Andrew added: “The most important thing in Gordon’s life was his family. Family meant everything to him.
“When I think of Gordon I automatically think of Gill and they are, quite simply, the perfect couple.
“It was love at first sight and they also best friends and soul mates who were virtually inseparable in their 27 glorious years together.
“Gordon’s love for his children was immeasurable. He was enormously proud of them and they’re all growing into beautiful; individuals who are a true credit to Gordon and Gill.”
A video montage of many of Gordon’s photos and images of him taken by his work friends was played on a big screen at the front of the packed church.
Reverend Dr Stewart Gillan described working with Gordon as “marvellous, easy, bright and quick” and said he would truly be missed by everybody.
Gordon was cremated at West Lothian crematorium in Livingston before the celebration of life held in his home town of Linlithgow.

